
[Transcriber’s Note:

This e-text includes characters that require UTF-8 (Unicode) file
encoding, primarily the “oe” ligature (œ and Œ).

If these characters do not display properly, or if the apostrophes and
quotation marks in this paragraph appear as garbage, make sure your text
reader’s “character set” or “file encoding” is set to Unicode (UTF-8).
You may also need to change the default font.

In the printed book, line breaks in the Congreve catalogue were shown
as virgules or slashes / (the “shilling marks” described in the editor’s
Introduction). The breaks have been restored in this e-text, omitting
the / but retaining any hyphens. Book sizes printed with superscript
“o” have been rendered as 4to, 8vo, 12mo. Other superscripts, including
a few books written as 8^vo, are shown in braces: 8{vo}, 2{3} edn.

Bracketed periods [.] were printed with small subscript brackets. They
occur whenever a catalog entry ends with an abbreviation (“Tom.”,
“Vol.”, “papr.”); the final period was supplied by the editor in most
of these entries. Under the headings of _Forma_, _Editio_, _Theca_
(size, edition, case number), sets of four unspaced dots .... were
added by the transcriber to indicate an empty column.

Variations and inconsistencies match the original, including:

  --Variation between œ and oe, æ and ae.
  --Dashes and hyphens. In general, four dashes ---- represent
    a single long line; other combinations are groups of distinct
    hyphens.
  --Spacing within entries in the _Editio_ column.
  --Dots and ellipses other than the .... sets noted above.

It was assumed that errors in the Catalogue itself, and inconsistencies
in quotations from original printed works, were reproduced from their
originals. Typographical errors, whether corrected or unchanged, are
listed at the end of the e-text.]




THE LIBRARY OF WILLIAM CONGREVE




[Illustration: First page of Congreve’s “Bibliotheca,” showing the
partially obliterated entries by the first hand. Reproduced from the
original in the library of the Yorkshire Archaeological Society by
permission of His Grace the Duke of Leeds.]




The Library of

WILLIAM CONGREVE


_By_ JOHN C. HODGES

_University of Tennessee, Knoxville_

[Illustration]


New York

The New York Public Library

1955




  Reprinted, with additional illustrations, from the
  _Bulletin_ of The New York Public Library of 1954-1955.
  Printed at The New York Public Library.




The Library of William Congreve


INTRODUCTION


When William Congreve died in 1729 he left a collection of books which
his old friend and publisher, Jacob Tonson, described (in a letter
preserved at the Bodleian) as “genteel & well chosen.” Tonson thought so
well of the collection that he urged his nephew, then his agent in
London, to purchase Congreve’s books. But Congreve had willed them to
Henrietta, the young Duchess of Marlborough, who was much concerned with
keeping intact (as she wrote in her will) “all Mr. Congreaves Personal
Estate that he left me” in order to pass it along to her youngest
daughter Mary. This daughter, said by gossip to have been Congreve’s
daughter also, married the fourth Duke of Leeds in 1740, and thus
Congreve’s books eventually found their way to Hornby Castle, chief seat
of the Leeds family in Yorkshire.

There apparently most of Congreve’s books remained until about 1930,
when the eleventh Duke of Leeds sold his English estates and authorized
Sotheby’s to auction off “a Selected portion of the Valuable Library at
Hornby Castle.” Among the 713 items advertised for sale on June 2, 3,
and 4, 1930, were ten books containing the signature of William
Congreve. These ten, along with a few others that have been discovered
here and there with Congreve’s name on the title page, and nine books
published by subscription with Congreve’s name in the printed list of
subscribers, made a total of some thirty-odd books known to have been in
Congreve’s library. These, we may presume, were but a small part of the
Congreve books which had been incorporated with the Leeds family library
in 1740.


_Finding and Identifying Congreve’s Book List and His Books_

Among the voluminous papers of the Leeds family now stored in the
British Museum, the Public Record Office, and several other depositories
in England are at least a half-dozen manuscript lists or catalogues of
Leeds books. In one list from the middle of the eighteenth century
appear a few of the books known to have been in Congreve’s library. The
same is true of lists dated 1810 and 1850. But it is impossible to use
any of these to determine exactly which of the books had once been
Congreve’s. Fortunately another manuscript list proves to be not a
combination of Congreve and Leeds books but a separate catalogue of
Congreve’s private library. This list, herewith printed, was found by
the editor in an English county depository, the Yorkshire Archaeological
Society in the City of Leeds.

Let us see why we may accept this list as Congreve’s and not simply
another catalogue of Leeds family books--as the librarian of the Society
had classified it. In the first place, it was found among the Leeds
papers, in one of the sixteen boxes of manuscripts brought away from
Hornby Castle shortly before it was torn down about 1930. Among the same
papers, interestingly enough, is a copy of the marriage settlement (on
the original parchment) whereby Mary Godolphin brought to the Leeds
family the books which she had inherited through her mother from
Congreve. The list was just where a Congreve document might have been
expected. In fact, the list was discovered incidentally while the Leeds
papers were being searched as the most promising place to find Congreve
letters. Not a single letter to or from Congreve was to be found,
perhaps because the gossip to the effect that Mary was the natural
daughter of Congreve had caused the family to destroy or mutilate
documents bearing his name. Congreve’s copy of Terence (Number 595 in
the list) is a good illustration. On the title page the signature “Will:
Congreve” was once entirely blotted out by the same ink that wrote
“Leeds” at the side. But the two centuries that have since passed have
caused the Leeds ink to fade and thus show very distinctly the clear,
black signature of the dramatist. As for Congreve’s 44-page manuscript
book list, evidently it was too useful to destroy--too valuable a record
of the fine collection acquired by the Leeds family. So the list was
kept, but the identifying title at the head of the list was crossed out
except for its opening word “Bibliotheca.” Although the name following
that word is illegible for the average reader, one who knows what to
look for can still trace out “Gul:{mi} Congreve, Armigeri” (see
frontispiece).

We do not, however, need to depend on this reading to prove that the
manuscript lists the books of William Congreve, Esquire. All the proof
needed is to be found in the list itself. The 659 items bear dates
between 1515 and 1728, with fourteen entries for 1728, the last year of
Congreve’s life. The list includes every one of the works, and the exact
edition of it, for which Congreve is known to have subscribed, such as
Rowe’s translation of Lucan’s _Pharsalia_ (1718) and Bononcini’s
_Cantate e Duetti_ (1721). Furthermore it includes the identical edition
of each book said by the Sotheby catalogue for the Leeds Sale of 1930 to
bear the signature of Congreve.

But the most convincing proof that the list could have belonged only to
Congreve is provided by three quarto volumes, each with Congreve’s
signature on the title page, bound together as one volume. This volume,
as described by the Sotheby catalogue for the Leeds Sale, was made up of
(1) Dryden’s _Of Dramatick Poesie_, 1684; (2) Horace’s _Art of Poetry_,
made English by the Earl of Roscommon, 1684; and (3) _The Rehearsal_,
1687. In other words, the three separate quartos had been specially
bound together to form a unique volume, one to be found only in
Congreve’s library. This same unique volume appears as item Number 406
in the manuscript list, where it is described as one of the
“Miscellanies bound together,” consisting of “Dryden’s Essay on Dram.
Poetry, Horace’s Art of Poetry by ye E. of Roscommon, and the
Rehearsal”--the identical three quartos described in the Sotheby
catalogue.

In June, 1930, while the “Selected” books from the Leeds library were
being sold at Sotheby’s in London in a three-day sale (referred to
hereafter as the Leeds Sale), the “remaining contents” of Hornby Castle
were auctioned off by Knight, Frank, and Rutley at old Hornby Castle in
Yorkshire in a seven-day sale (referred to hereafter as the Hornby
Castle Sale). The books, which made only a minor part of the latter
sale, were all auctioned off on the sixth day. These books were
catalogued as Lots 1097 through 1294, with from 2 to 430 books in a
single lot, making a total of about 7,475. Only a very small fraction of
these were mentioned by title in the printed catalogue, and nothing was
said about signatures on title pages. But among those mentioned appear
twenty-one of the exact editions in Congreve’s list: Numbers 37, 71,
158, 161, 168, 172, 233, 270, 288, 343, 380, 467, 492, 493, 499, 500,
516, 533, 543, 620, 652. Among the “Selected” books catalogued for the
Leeds Sale appear sixty-one of the exact editions in Congreve’s list:
Numbers 4, 10, 42, 55, 76, 79 (or 80), 96, 97, 98, 152, 160, 178, 179,
182, 183, 184, 207, 208, 234, 257, 258, 262, 281, 283, 292, 342, 360,
367, 406, 413, 421, 423, 427, 441, 442, 444, 451, 455, 458, 460, 462,
463, 465, 502, 507, 518, 529, 534, 536, 542, 544, 553, 558, 566, 579,
592, 639, 641, 649, 651, 656.

Since Congreve’s books had been incorporated with the Leeds library in
1740, we can understand how eighty-two of the identical editions in the
list could turn up in sales of Leeds books in 1930. Most of the
eighty-two exact editions named (and many of the thousands of unnamed
books) in these sales were probably once Congreve’s. The fact that
Sotheby’s catalogue mentions the Congreve signature in only ten books
suggests that he usually failed to write his name in his books. Sotheby
lists most of the books for which Congreve is known to have subscribed,
and yet no mention is made of a Congreve signature in any of them. Nor
does any signature appear in the special edition of Rowe’s Shakespeare
(Number 544 in the list) now in the Folger Shakespeare Library and
almost certainly once Congreve’s.

But other books besides the ten mentioned by Sotheby’s were signed by
Congreve. One example is Sotheby’s item Number 532 (Congreve’s Number
518), which was sold to McLeish and Sons and then to E. S. de Beer,
Esq., before the unmistakable signature of the dramatist was noted.
Another example is Congreve’s Number 501, which was in the Hornby Castle
Sale and bears the true signature, “Wm: Congreve.” Especially
significant is a letter to the editor dated August 20, 1949, from Her
Grace Katherine, Duchess of the tenth Duke of Leeds, stating that many
years ago she had herself “made a great hunt for any books at Hornby
Castle bearing the signature of Congreve,” had found “numbers” of them,
and had made a full catalogue with the aid of “Mr. Charles Whibley, the
writer & bibliophile.” Unfortunately this catalogue has been lost. If it
is ever found, it will be an interesting record of autographed Congreve
books held together by one family for nearly two centuries. But the
catalogue could not include all the items on the Congreve list since, as
we have seen, the dramatist evidently owned many books in which he
failed to write his name.

In the twenty-odd books known to have been autographed by the dramatist,
the signature is commonly “Will: Congreve,” but the surname is sometimes
preceded by “W,” “Wm,” “Willm,” “Gul,” “Gulielmi,” or “Gulielmus.” One
of Congreve’s books (Number 236 in the list) preserved in the Yale
Library uses both “W: Congreve” and “Gulielmus Congreve” in different
signatures. None of the signatures should be accepted as that of the
dramatist until the handwriting is verified, for “William” has long been
a common Christian name in the Congreve family. In 1700 there were
living no fewer than five Congreves bearing this name, all descended
from the same grandfather. One of these was Colonel William Congreve
(1671-1746) of Highgate, a cousin of the dramatist, whose papers have
been confused with those of the dramatist in many sales as well as in
many American libraries. The colonel usually signed “Will:” as did the
dramatist, but the two cousins formed the “W” in strikingly different
ways. The colonel rounded the first upper prong of this letter and
brought the middle prong to only little more than half the height of the
other prongs; the dramatist sharpened the first prong and brought the
middle prong fully up to the height of the others.

Since the present Duke of Leeds reports that he no longer has books
bearing Congreve’s signature, we may presume that they were largely, if
not fully, disposed of in the two sales of 1930 and are now widely
scattered. Books with Congreve’s signature are preserved at the Yale
Library (Congreve’s Numbers 236, 262, 441), at the Library of the
University of Tennessee (Numbers 119, 595), at the Morgan Library
(Number 289), at the Boston Public Library (Number 192), at the
Brotherton Library of the University of Leeds (Number 541), and in the
private libraries of E. S. de Beer, Esq., (Number 518) and the Reverend
J. F. Gerrard (Number 371). The editor of this work will be grateful for
information concerning the location of other volumes bearing the true
signature of William Congreve (1670-1729). Such volumes will be doubly
interesting if annotated in the dramatist’s handwriting. Some of the
books were thus annotated, according to Jacob Tonson, in his letter of
27 January 1728/29 (a few days after Congreve’s death), to his nephew,
Jacob Tonson, Junior: “His [Congreve’s] collection of Books were very
genteel & well chosen. I wish you should think them worth your buying;
I think there are in [these] books several notes of his own or
corrections & everything from him will be very valuable.”


_Editing and Printing the Book List_

The manuscript list consists of 659 entries arranged in rough
alphabetical order on forty-four pages in a sort of journal
approximately seven by eleven inches in size. The normal entry gives the
name of the author (for perhaps three-fourths of the entries), the short
title, the format, the place and date of publication, and sometimes the
publisher. And finally, after most of the items appears the “Theca” or
shelf number--one of 33 shelves on which Congreve arranged his books at
his lodgings in Surrey Street, London.

The list is set down in three distinct hands. That no one of these is
Congreve’s need not surprise us since Congreve had very defective
eyesight during the last half of his life. An adequate income from
government posts enabled him at this period to employ a secretary,
perhaps the “young Amanuensis” that he speaks of in writing to Pope
about 1726. That was the year, it seems, when the bulk of the list--587
of the 659 items--was made out. The year is indicated by the fact that
this hand enters titles of books published through 1725 but none later.
After each alphabetical group a space is left as if for additions, and
into these spaces a distinctive second hand has made thirty-one entries,
including some as late as 1727 but none later. Then follow forty-one
entries by a third hand, including four for 1727 and fourteen for 1728
but none later. Entries by the third hand are probably for books added
to the library during Congreve’s final illness. It is interesting to
note that none of the entries in this last hand are followed by a
“Theca” or shelf location, an omission indicating that by the time these
titles were entered, the library had been moved from the original
quarters in Surrey Street. Perhaps the young Duchess, owner of the books
after Congreve’s death, had already moved them to her house in St.
James’s--and possibly the hand is that of her secretary.

A small cross is marked before most of the 659 items--before all but
fifty-eight (or thirty-seven, when allowance is made for duplicates).
Perhaps these crosses were used in connection with an inventory taken in
1729 when the books were inherited by the young Duchess of Marlborough,
or in 1740 when the books were incorporated by marriage settlement into
the Leeds library. The thirty-seven items then missing (as indicated by
the lack of a cross in Congreve’s list) were Numbers 27, 29, 54, 97,
109, 110, 127, 136, 169, 196, 217, 227, 246, 249, 275, 307, 350, 373,
393, 417, 432, 438, 439, 492, 494, 517, 520, 529, 530, 531, 532, 590,
591, 598, 605, 653, and 658. The two books that had been lent to “Ld.
Hervy” (see Congreve’s Number 81) and to the Duchess of Marlborough (see
Number 372) were in place at the time of the inventory, and each was
duly acknowledged by a cross. An additional larger cross surrounded by
four dots appears before eleven items (Numbers 36, 65, 120, 232, 256,
283, 298, 303, 462, 484, and 516) to indicate books sent--so the
librarian says in a marginal note--to the Duchess of Leeds. These larger
crosses could not have been made, of course, before 1740.

Congreve’s book list is here edited and printed for the first time.
After the 659 numbers, which are supplied by the editor to facilitate
cross references and indexing, the 659 items of the list are printed
with spelling, capitalization, and punctuation as in the manuscript.
Occasional raised letters, such as the “r” in “Mr.” and the “e” in “ye,”
are brought down into the line. The great variety of dots and dashes
used to indicate shortened titles are consistently eliminated.
Underscored words are printed in italics. The line breaks in the
manuscript are indicated by shilling marks (/). In the manuscript many
of the “Theca” numbers have been written over older numbers (indicating,
no doubt, a shifting of the books to different shelves). Most of the
older numbers are illegible, and only the newer, more legible numbers
are printed. The occasional use of brackets in the manuscript (as in
Numbers 120, 121, 157, 166, 167, and 238) makes impractical the
editorial expansion in brackets of such abbreviations as “p” in No. 9
(for “par”) and in No. 180 (for “per”). The thirty-one entries by the
second hand and the forty-one by the third hand (Numbers 34, 35, 36, 70,
etc.) are designated by the first line of the annotation.

In the paragraph following each item from the manuscript list, the
editor attempts to give the author’s name (with dates of his birth and
death), to fill out the short title somewhat when it seems interesting
or helpful in identification, and to show the place of publication, the
name of the publisher, the year of publication, and the format. The
letters “V” (for “U”) and “I” (for “J”) are usually given the English
equivalents. Otherwise the short title follows the spelling and
punctuation of the title page of the copy examined (usually a copy in
one of the key libraries), with capitalization for only the first word
of the title and for proper names.

The line immediately below this paragraph is reserved for the number, if
any, in the _Short-Title Catalogue_ (abbreviated “STC” for the period
ending 1640 and “Wing” for the later period) and specialized
bibliographies; and for a short list of libraries in which a copy of the
exact edition may be consulted. Then follows, for some items, a second
paragraph of pertinent editorial comment.

All the items in Congreve’s list have been identified, at least
tentatively. There is most uncertainty, perhaps, about Numbers 114, 368,
375, and 412. Besides these, twenty others, though well enough known in
some edition, have not been found in any library in the identical
edition of Congreve’s list: Numbers 9, 30, 113, 129, 130, 197, 210, 217,
240, 271, 277, 296, 323, 345, 366, 376, 435, 569, 578, and 637.
Furthermore, Numbers 160, 185, 211, 379, 394, 567, and 647 present
difficulties perhaps due to errors on the part of the person making the
manuscript entry.

It will be noticed that forty or more of the items have not been found
in the format given by the manuscript list. This discrepancy may be
explained, at least in part, by the tendency of the makers of the list
to judge the format merely by size. For example, a large duodecimo
(Number 528) is called an octavo, while many small octavos (Numbers 159,
346, 378, 516, etc.) are called duodecimos. The discrepancies involve
chiefly the smaller volumes. Not a single folio volume is involved.

The finding lists of libraries (where copies of the exact editions in
Congreve’s list may be consulted) have been arranged geographically,
including usually one European library and several American libraries
located from New England to the Pacific Coast. The ideal has been to
find a copy in each of seven key libraries: the British Museum (Europe),
Harvard (New England), The New York Public Library, the Folger
Shakespeare Library, and the Library of Congress (Middle Atlantic), the
Newberry Library (Middle West), and the Huntington Library (West). The
editor has checked Congreve’s list with the catalogues of the seven key
libraries, except for The New York Public Library and the Newberry
Library, where the checking was done by members of the respective
library staffs.

Occasionally an ideal distribution in the seven libraries is found, as
for Numbers 10, 23, 42, 44, 88, 90, 99, and 100. Whenever an edition is
not available in the key library, an effort has been made to find it in
another library of the region. For books not at the British Museum,
references are made to the Bodleian, the Bibliothèque Nationale, or
other European libraries. Books not at Harvard are most frequently found
at Yale or the Boston Public Library. Those not at the Huntington
Library are frequently at the nearby William Andrews Clark Memorial
Library.

Of the American libraries in the finding lists, exclusive of the key
libraries, the editor has examined practically all editions cited at the
Boston Public Library, the Yale Library, and the Clark Library. Other
American libraries are, for the most part, cited on the authority of the
Union Catalog of the Library of Congress. Of the European libraries,
exclusive of the British Museum, the editor has examined practically all
editions cited at libraries in Paris, Brussels, The Hague, Leiden,
Amsterdam, Florence, Rome, Oxford, and Cambridge, and at the various
legal and medical libraries in London. Other English libraries are cited
on the authority of the National Central Library, London.

In Congreve’s list about sixty-two of the 659 entries are cross
references or else duplicate entries. On the other hand, some entries
account for more than a single title. Numbers 405-408, for example,
include a total of twenty-six titles. There are approximately 620
separate titles in the list. Of these 620, about 481 (78 per cent) may
be found in the British Museum, 338 (55 per cent) in the Harvard
Library, 192 (31 per cent) in the Library of Congress, 188 (30 per cent)
in The New York Public Library, 186 (30 per cent) in the Huntington
Library, 184 (30 per cent) in the Newberry Library, and 148 (24 per
cent) in the Folger Shakespeare Library. At the Bodleian may be
consulted about thirty-four titles not in the British Museum; and at the
Bibliothèque Nationale, about thirty-seven titles in neither the British
Museum nor the Bodleian. At Yale there are about sixty-eight titles not
at Harvard; and at the Clark Library, about forty-seven titles not at
the Huntington.


_Using Congreve’s Book List_

We may well ask, What are some of the uses that can be made of
Congreve’s book list? For one thing, it may be studied as a carefully
selected private library of the period. What authors, what editions,
what subjects are to be found in such a library? Which of Congreve’s
contemporaries are represented? Which of the current books seemed
important enough for a fellow writer to buy or to subscribe for in
advance of publication? To what extent did the literature of ancient
Greece, of Rome, of modern Italy, of France, of Spain, of Germany find
its way into a private library in England’s Augustan Age? And to what
extent were such books in their original language? One scholar has found
in Congreve’s book list the information he needed about certain early
editions of Horace. Another, inquiring into the Italian influence on
England during the eighteenth century, has found a partial answer in the
Italian books and in the books about Italy set down in Congreve’s list.

Fortunately the list can be made to give information about the one who
collected and used the books. We know less, perhaps, about Congreve than
about any other equally significant writer of the period; and
consequently, additional information about him is especially important.
We have long known of course, that he made translations from the French,
the Latin, and the Greek and have assumed that he read those languages.
We feel more confident about the extent of his reading when we find a
full fourth of his library in French, nearly a fifth in Latin, and a
goodly number of volumes in Greek. About twenty titles in Italian make
us reasonably sure that he read that language also. And since he had in
Spanish only a Spanish-English dictionary and two Spanish books (for
each of which he had a translation in another language), we may assume
that his knowledge of Spanish must have been slight indeed. His
deficiency in German is strongly suggested by the fact that German is
represented in the list only in translation.

As a translator from the Greek and the Latin Congreve first brought
himself to the attention of Dryden, who pronounced the youthful Congreve
“more capable than any man I know” to translate the whole of Homer.
Congreve never completed that proposed translation, but years later he
was singled out by Pope for the dedication of his Homer. That Congreve’s
genuine interest in the classics continued throughout his life is
attested by the constant and carefully chosen additions to his library.
His collection is richest in the works of Cicero, Homer, Horace, and
Virgil, but he owned the collected works of many other classical
authors. The breadth of his interest is shown by the fact that over
sixty Greek and Latin writers are either represented in his library or
referred to in his own writings. The Italian Louis Riccoboni visited
Congreve in 1727 and was surprised to find that a dramatist could be so
scholarly. In Congreve, he said, “Taste [was] joined with great
Learning.”[*]

    [Footnote: From Riccoboni’s _An Historical and Critical Account
    of the Theatre in Europe_, p. 175. One of the last books added
    to Congreve’s library was Riccoboni’s _Histoire du Théâtre
    Italien_, Paris, [1727]. See Number 314.]

Certain items in the inventory tend to confirm reports that have
hitherto been given little credit. One of these has to do with
Congreve’s interest in horses and horseback riding, which seems to be
supported by item Number 277:

  The gentleman’s jockey, and approved farrier; instructing in the
  natures, causes, and cures of all diseases incident to horses. 8vo.
  London, 1717.

Many people will find it difficult to associate with Congreve a special
interest in horses, particularly an interest that extended beyond his
youth, as suggested by the late date 1717. Another report that has
seemed even less in keeping with Congreve concerns the impact of
Quakerism on him. Could he have taken a special interest in one of the
Quakers, visited him repeatedly, and could he have seriously considered
adopting the beliefs of the Quakers? The report that he did so has not
been taken seriously. But we must not overlook the fact that Congreve
owned (as item Number 53 in his list) the most important document of
Quakerism, the 574-page analysis and defense by Robert Barclay entitled
_An Apology for the True Christian Divinity as the same is Held Forth,
and Preached, by the People, called in Scorn, Quakers_, London, 1701 (or
1703).

Congreve did not, like his friend Jonathan Swift, lose interest in the
purchase of books during the last third of his life. For Swift’s library
we have an inventory made when Swift was about fifty. Another inventory
at his death more than twenty-five years later showed but few additions.
In the case of Congreve, the earliest inventory--the 587 items in the
first hand made out about 1726--came only three years before his death.
But active buying must have continued throughout his life as shown by
the dates in the imprints. The thirty-one entries by the second hand
seem to indicate approximately the purchases for 1727 and the forty-one
entries by the third hand approximately those for 1728. Congreve was
evidently an active purchaser of books from his youth and did not stop
during his last years.

Congreve’s list emphasizes collected editions, especially for plays, and
contains very few quartos. When he collected his works in three volumes
in 1710, he apparently destroyed (at least he did not list) the earlier
editions of his plays in quarto. He loved to write such ballads as the
racy “Jack French-Man’s Defeat,” but he never recognized these by
including them in his book list or in his collected works; nor did he
list his youthful novel _Incognita_ (1691), if indeed he had a copy of
it. Such omissions were later made by men with much greater novels to
their credit. In the sales catalogues listing the books of Defoe and
Fielding, one looks in vain for _Robinson Crusoe_ or _Tom Jones_.

But perhaps most important is the information given by the list about
Congreve’s special fields of interest and the fact that the list
provides likely sources for his literary work. Mention should be made of
his fine collection of drama (Greek, Roman, French, and English); of
some one hundred titles of literary criticism; of nearly as many
carefully selected works in biography and history; of a choice
collection of thirty travel books and somewhat smaller lots in medicine,
music, and cookery. Many of the books might be classified under religion
and philosophy. The poets, both English and foreign, are well
represented. And surprisingly enough, there are more than one hundred
items of prose fiction, chiefly French. The influence of this fiction,
if any, on Congreve’s own _Incognita_, and the influence of the literary
criticism on his essay _Concerning Humour in Comedy_, are only two of
many studies that might be based on Congreve’s book list. Perhaps
someone will use the works on astrology to help account for one of his
humorous characters, old Foresight of _Love for Love_. Since many of the
659 items consist of collected works, the library is actually more
extensive than the number of items might indicate. Jacob Tonson had good
reason for wanting his nephew to buy Congreve’s “genteel & well chosen”
library.


_Acknowledgments_

The editor is deeply grateful to the many librarians on both sides of
the Atlantic and to others who have generously assisted in the
preparation of this study. A grant from the American Philosophical
Society in 1949 made possible the search which incidentally turned up
Congreve’s manuscript book list, and grants from the Henry E. Huntington
Memorial Library (1951) and the Folger Shakespeare Library (1952)
provided time and rare faculties for the editing.

The staff of the Union Catalog of the Library of Congress has located in
America editions in the book list not already included in the Catalog;
S. P. L. Filon, Esq., of the National Central Library in London, has
helped with English books neither in the British Museum nor in the
libraries at Oxford and Cambridge; and Dr. Stanley Pargellis has very
kindly had Congreve’s list checked for all items in the Newberry
Library. The Reserve Division has noted all titles in The New York
Public Library.

To His Grace, the Duke of Leeds, and to the Trustees of the Yorkshire
Archaeological Society the editor is indebted for kind permission to
photostat and publish the list.

Among the many individuals to whom the editor is indebted, special
mention should be made of Miss Isabel Fry and Mr. Lyle Wright, of the
Huntington Library; Mrs. Edna C. Davis, of the William Andrews Clark
Memorial Library; Miss Eleanor E. Goehring, Professor John L. Lievsay
and Professor Alwin Thaler, of the University of Tennessee; and Dr.
Giles E. Dawson, Dr. James G. McManaway, and Dr. Edwin E. Willoughby, of
the Folger Shakespeare Library. Many items in the book list might not
have been identified except for the kindness and the genius of Dr.
Willoughby.




ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE BOOK LIST


  BM          The British Museum, London.

  BN          Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris.

  Brooks      “A Bibliography of John Oldham,” _Proceedings of the
              Oxford Bibliographical Society_, v, 1936.

  Case        _A Bibliography of English Poetical Miscellanies,
              1521-1750_, Oxford, 1935.

  Clark       The William Andrews Clark Memorial Library, Los Angeles,
              California.

  Folg        The Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington, D.C.

  Harv        The Harvard Library, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

  Hunt        The Henry E. Huntington Memorial Library, San Marino,
              California.

  LC          The Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.

  Macdonald   _John Dryden, a Bibliography of Early Editions and of
              Drydeniana_, Oxford, 1939.

  NYP         The New York Public Library, New York City.

  STC         _A Short-Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England,
              Scotland, & Ireland, and of English Books Printed Abroad,
              1475-1640_, Oxford, 1926.

  Wing        _A Short-Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England,
              Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and British America and of
              English Books Printed in Other Countries, 1641-1700_,
              in Three Volumes, New York, 1945-1951.


Names of libraries not given in full may usually be filled out by the
addition of “Library” or “University Library.”




BIBLIOTHECA GUL:{MI} CONGREVE, ARMIGERI


      [_Forma._  _Editio._        _Theca_]


    1 Athenæi Deipnosophistarum Libri XV.
      ex Recensione Casauboni. apd Commelin

      [Fol.      . . . 1611.            1]

Athenaeus Naucratita (fl. _c._ A.D. 200). Deipnosophistarum libri XV.
Isaacus Casaubonus Graecum textum recensuit, & ex antiquis membranis
supplevit, auxitque. Addita est Jacobi Dalechampii Latina interpretatio,
cum notis. [Heidelberg], in bibliopolio Commeliniano, 1611. fol.

  _Edinburgh Univ.; Harv._

The 1611 reprint, now very rare, differs from the first edition of 1597
only in the title page. For Congreve’s copy of the Latin translation by
Natale Conti, see No. 33 below.


    2 L’Adone, Poema del _Marino_

      [Fol.      Paris 1623.            1]

Giovanni Battista Marino (1569-1625). L’Adone, poema. . . . Con gli
argomenti del Conte Fortuniano Sanvitale, et l’allegorie di Don Lorenzo
Scoto. In Parigi, presso Oliviero di Virano, 1623. fol.

  _BM; Harv._


    3 ---- Idem 4 Tom. con Fig.

      [24to.     Amst.1678.             5]

L’Adone, poema heroico, del c. Marino, con gli argomenti del conte
Sanvitale, e l’allegorie di don Lorenzo Scoto. Aggiuntovi la tavola
delle cose notabili. Di nuova ricorreto, edi figure ornatto. Amsterdam,
stamperia del S. D. Elsevier, et in Parigi si vende appresso Thomaso
Jolly, 1678. 4 vol. 32mo.

  _BM; Yale, LC._


    4 Ambassadors Travels into Muscovy &c.

      [Fol.      Lond.1669.             1]

Adam Olearius (1600?-1671). The voyages and travells of the ambassadors
sent by Frederick Duke of Holstein, to the great Duke of Muscovy, and
the King of Persia. . . . Containing a compleat history of Muscovy,
Tartary, Persia. And other adjacent countries. . . . Whereto are added
the travels of John Albert de Mandelslo . . . from Persia, into the
East-Indies. Containing a particular description of Indostan, the
Mogul’s empire, the oriental ilands, Japan, China, &c. . . . Faithfully
rendered into English, by John Davies, of Kidwelly. The second edition
corrected. London, for John Starkey, and Thomas Basset, 1669. fol.

  Wing O270.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry._

The first edition of the English translation, 1662, was derived from the
original work in German, 1647. For Congreve’s copy of the French
translation of 1666, see No. 616. A copy of the 1669 edition was a part
of item No. 480 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


    5 Aulus Gellius cum Notis _Gronovii_

      [4to.      Lug.B.1706.           22]

Aulus Gellius (_c._ 123-_c._ 165). Auli Gellii noctium atticarum libri
XX prout supersunt . . . perpetuis notis & emendationibus illustraverunt
Johannes Fredericus et Jacobus Gronovii. Lugduni Batavorum, apud
Cornelium Boutesteyn, & Johannem du Vivié, 1706. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Chicago._


    6 ---- Idem sine Notis

      [24to.     Amst.1665              5]

Auli Gellii noctes atticæ. Editio nova et prioribus omnibus docti
hominis cura multo castigatior. Amstelodami, apud Danielem Elzevirium,
1665. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


    7 Aristotelis Rhetorica Gr. Lat. p Goulston

      [4to.      Lond.1619.            22]

Aristotle (384-322 B.C.). Aristotelis de rhetorica seu arte dicendi
libri tres, græcolat. [Ed. Theodorus Goulston.] Londini, typis Eduardi
Griffini, 1619. 4to.

  STC 766

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


    8 ---- Poetica p _Alex Paccium_ in Lat.
      conversa

      [24to.     Par.1542.              5]

Aristotelis Poetica, per Alexandrum Paccium . . . in latinum conversa.
[Parisiis] prostant apud Jacobum Bogardum [1542]. 16mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._

Congreve had also the 1692 French translation by Dacier. See No. 198.


    9 Aristote Rhetorique p Mr. Cassandre

      [4to.      Ib.1668.              22]

La rhétorique d’Aristote en françois. Traduction nouvelle. [Par François
Cassandre.] Paris, L. Chamhoudry, 1654. 4to.

Copies of the first quarto (1654) are at BN and Princeton, but no copy
of a 1668 quarto has been located.


   10 Art of ye Stage Translated from ye French
      2 Vols[.]

      [4to.      Lond.1684.            27]

Francois Hédelin, Abbé d’Aubignac (1604-1676). The whole art of the
stage. Containing not only the rules of the dramatick art, but many
curious observations about it. Which may be of great use to the authors,
actors, and spectators of plays. London, for the author, and sold by
William Cadman, Rich. Bentley, Sam. Smith, & T. Fox, 1684. 4to.

  Wing A4185.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy, with his signature in each volume, was item No. 298 in
the Leeds Sale, 1930. This is a translation of the first French edition,
1657, a copy of which appears as No. 469 below.


   11 L’Art de Penser

      [12mo.     Amst.1697.            24]

Antoine Arnauld (1612-1694) and Pierre Nicole (1625-1695). La logique ou
L’art de penser, contenant outre les regles communes, plusieurs
observations nouvelles, propres à former le jugement. Septiéme edition,
revuë & de nouveau augmentée. A Amsterdam, chez Henri Wetstein, 1697.
12mo.

  _Leeds (England), Amsterdam; Cornell._


   12 ---- de Faire les Devises

      [8vo.      Par.1645.             12]

Henry Estienne, Sieur Des Fossez (fl. 1639-1649). L’art de faire des
devises, où il est traicté des hieroglyphiques, symboles, emblemes,
ænygmes, sentences, paraboles, revers de medailles, armes, blasons,
cimiers, chiffres et rebus. Avec un traicté des rencontres ou mots
plaisans. A Paris, chez Jean Paslé, 1645. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


   13 Arthur’s (King) Life & Death, wth: ye Knights
      of ye Round Table. wants ye Title.
      Printed by Wynkyn de Worde

      [Fol.      Lond 1529.             2]

[La mort darthur. Translated from the French by Sir T. Malory.] Black
Letter. London, Wynkyn de Worde, 1529. fol.

  STC 803.

  _BM; Michigan (film)._

The only copy reported by STC, in the _BM_, is described as “Imperfect;
wanting the titlepage and first six leaves of the table.”


   14 Alcimus & Vannoza, a Trag. Hist. of 2 Illustr
      Italian Families

      [8vo.      Ib.1677.               8]

Jean Pierre Camus, Bishop of Belley (1584-1652). A true tragical history
of two illustrious Italian families; couched under the names of Alcimus
and Vannoza. Written in French. . . . Done into English by a person of
quality. London, for William Jacob, 1677. 8vo.

  Wing C419.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


   15 Aubrey’s Miscellanies

      [8vo.      Ib.1696.               8]

John Aubrey (1626-1697). Miscellanies. London, for Edward Castle, 1696.
8vo.

  Wing A4188.

  _BM; Yale, LC, Clark._


   16 Atterbury’s (Bp) Rights of an Eng. Convocat.
      Stated. 2d. Edit.

      [8vo.      Ib.1701.              14]

Francis Atterbury, Bishop of Rochester (1662-1732). The rights, powers,
and privileges of an English convocation, stated and vindicated. 2nd ed.
London, Tho. Bennet, 1701. 8vo.

  _BM; Princeton, Newberry, Hunt._


   17 Allexandri ab Alexandro Geniales Dies

      [8vo.      Hanov.1610.            7]

Alexander ab Alexandro (d. 1523). Genialium dierum libri sex. Hanoviæ,
typis Wechelianis, apud Claudium Marnium & heredes Joan. Aubrii, 1610.
8vo.

  _Museum of Antiquities (Leyden); Massachusetts Hist. Soc. (Boston),
  Oregon._


   18 L’Abbé de Saint-Real Oeuvres 5 Tom.

      [12mo.     Haye 1722             30]

César Vichard de Saint-Réal (1639-1692). Oeuvres. [Ed. by P. Marchand.]
A La Haye, chez les frères Vaillant & Nicholas Prèvost, 1722. 5 tom.
12mo.

See also No. 129.

  _BM; Yale, Princeton._


   19 Amours de Psiche et de Cupidon p Fontaine

      [12mo.     Ib.1700.              25]

Jean de La Fontaine (1621-1695). Les amours de Psiché et de Cupidon.
A La Haye, chez Adrian Moetjens, 1700. 12mo.

  _BM; LC, Clark._


   20 ---- de Daphnis et Chloe p Amiot

      [12mo.     ----                  25]

[Jacques Amyot, Bishop of Auxerre (1513-1593)]. Les amours pastorales de
Daphnis et Chloé. Ecrites en grec par Longus, & traduites en françois
par Amiot. A Amsterdam, chez les freres Westin, 1716. 12mo.

  _BN; LC._


   21 ---- des Dames Illustres de Notre Siecle

      [12mo.     Col.1700.             26]

[Roger de Bussy-Rabutin (1618-1693) and others.] Amours des dames
illustres de notre siecle. A Cologne, chez Jean Le Blanc, 1700. 12mo.

  _BN; Yale._


   22 ---- de Tibulle p Mr. de la Chappelle 3 Tom.

      [12mo.     Amst.1715             24]

Jean de La Chapelle (1655-1723). Les amours de Tibulle. A Amsterdam,
chez Jean Fred. Bernard, 1715. 3 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._

This romance is interspersed with French verse translations of
selections from Tibullus.


   23 Addison’s Travels, wth. Remarks on Several
      Parts of Italy

      [8vo.      Lond.1705.            28]

Joseph Addison (1672-1719). Remarks on several parts of Italy, &c. in
the years, 1701, 1702, 1703. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1705. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   24 Abra-Mulé, or, ye History of ye Dethronement
      of Mahomet IV.

      [12mo.     Ib.1696.               8]

Eustache Lenoble, Baron de Saint-Georges et de Tennelière (1643-1711).
Abra-mulè; or, A true history of the dethronement of Mahomet IV. Written
in French by M. Le Noble. Made English by J. P. London, for R. Clavel,
1696. 8vo.

  Wing L1051.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Newberry._


   25 P. Aretino de Ragionamenti

      [8vo.      . . . 1584.            6]

Pietro Bacci Aretino (1492-1556). La prima parte de Ragionamenti. [Part
I, pp. 1-198; Part II, pp. 1-339.] 1584. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Illinois._


   26 Annales Galantes 5.6.7.8 Parties

      [12mo.     Par.1677.             26]

[Marie Catherine Hortense Desjardins, afterwards Villedieu (d. 1683)].
Annales galantes. Divisée [sic] en huit parties. Paris, chez Claude
Barbin, 1677. 2 vol. 12mo.

  _BM._


   27 Avantures D’Abdalla Fils d’Hanif

      [24to.     Haye 1713.            26]

Abbé Jean Paul Bignon (1662-1743); Pseud., Mr. de Sandisson. Les
avantures d’Abdalla, fils d’Hanif, envoyé par le Sultan des Indes à la
découverte de l’isle de Borico, où est la fontaine merveilleuse dont
l’eau fait rajeunir. . . . Traduites en françois sur le manuscrit arabe,
trouvé à Batavia [or rather written] par Mr. De Sandisson. A La Haye,
chez Guillaume de Voys, 1713. 12mo.

  _BM._


   28 L’Amant Oisif, Nouvelles Espagnoles

      [12mo.     Brus.1711.            26]

L’amant oisif. Contenant cinquante nouvelles espagnoles. [By
Garouville.] A Brusselles, George de Backer, 1711. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._


   29 Aminta, Favola Boscareccia del _Tasso_

      [24to.     Amst.1678.             5]

Torquato Tasso (1544-1595). Aminta, favola boscareccia. Amsterdam, nella
stamperia S. D. Elsevier, et in Parigi si vende appresso Thomaso Jolly,
1678. 32mo.

  _BN._


   30 L’Academie Francois Sentimens sur la
      Tragi-Comedie du Cid

      [12mo.     Londres 1703.         24]

Les sentimens de l’Académie françoise sur la tragi-comédie du Cid.
[Chiefly by Jean Chapelain. First Ed., 1638.] A Paris, chez Jean
Baptiste Coignard, 1701. 12mo.

  _BN._

No copy of a 1703 edition has been found.


   31 d’Ariste et Eugene Entretiens

      [12mo.     Paris.1671.           12]

[Le P. Dominique Bouhours (1628-1702).] Les entretiens d’Ariste et
d’Eugene. Seconde edition. A Paris, chez Sebastien Mabre-Cramoisy, 1671.
12mo.

  _BN; Newberry, Clark._


   32 Alaric ou Rome vaincu p Scudery

      [12mo.     Ib.1655.               6]

Georges de Scudéry (1601-1667). Alaric, ou Rome vaincuë. Poëme heroïque.
A Paris, chez Augustin Courbé, 1655. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Newberry._

A copy of this edition, with Dryden’s signature on the fly leaf, was
item No. 574 in the Leeds Sale, 1930, and is now in the Folger
Shakespeare Library. Apparently this copy had been a gift from Dryden to
Congreve. See James M. Osborn, _John Dryden: Some Biographical Facts and
Problems_, New York, 1940, p. 231.


   33 Athenæi Dipnosophistarum. Tom. 3
      Per Nat: Com:

      [12mo.     Basil 1556            18]

    Entry by the second hand.

Athenæi dipnosophistarum . . . libri XV. Natale de Comitibus. Basiliæ,
per Henrichum Petri, 1556. 8vo.

See No. 1 above.

  _BM; LC, Newberry._


   34 Arbuthnot’s tables of antient Coins, Weights, & Measures

      [4to.      Lon.1727            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

John Arbuthnot (1667-1735). Tables of ancient coins, weights and
measures explain’d and exemplify’d in several dissertations. London,
J. Tonson, 1727. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Texas, Hunt._


   35 ---- Oratio anniversaria Harvæana

      [4to.      Lon.1727            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Oratio anniversaria Harvæeana, habita . . . die xviii Octobris, A.D.
1727. Londini, impensis Jacobi Tonson, 1727. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, U.S. Surgeon General’s Office, Texas._


   36 Arsinoe, an Opera

      [4to.      Ib.1705             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

[Peter Anthony Motteux (1663-1718).] Arsinoe, Queen of Cyprus. An opera,
after the Italian manner. London, for J. Tonson, 1705. 4to.

  _Bodleian; Boston Public, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   37 Burnet’s (Bp) History of his own Time
      Vol. 1. from ye Restoration
      to ye Revolution

      [Fol.      Lond.1724.             1]

Only the first volume of Bishop Gilbert Burnet’s history, published by
Thomas Ward, appears in Congreve’s list. The second volume was not
published until 1734, five years after Congreve’s death. A copy of this
edition was listed under No. 1138 in the Hornby Castle Sale, 1930.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Hunt._


   38 ---- Letters giving account of Things
      most Remarkable in his Travels
      p Switzerland, Italy &c[.]

      [8vo.      Rot.1687.              3]

Gilbert Burnet (1643-1715). Some letters, containing an account of what
seemed most remarkable in travelling through Switzerland, Italy, some
parts of Germany, &c. Rotterdam, for Abraham Acher, 1687. 8vo.

  Wing B5918.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Chicago._

Three editions were printed at Rotterdam in 1687, but only one of these,
the “second,” was in 8vo.


   39 Burnetii (Tho.) Archæologiæ Philosoph[.]

      [4to.      Lond.1692.            14]

Thomas Burnet, Master of the Charter House (1635?-1715). Archæologiæ
philosophicæ: sive Doctrina antiqua de rerum originibus. Libri duo.
Londini, typis R. N. impensis Gualt. Kettilby, 1692. 4to.

  Wing B5943.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Washington State._


   40 ---- Telluris Theoria Sacra Ed. 3a.

      [4to.      Ib.1702               14]

Telluris theoria sacra: orbis nostri originem & mutationes generales,
quas aut jam subiit, aut olim subiturus est, complectens. . . . Editio
tertia. Londini, impensis Benj. Took, 1702. 4to.

  _BM; Yale, Vassar, Clark._


   41 ---- Theory of ye Earth 2 Vols.

      [Fol.      Ib.1684.               1]

The theory of the earth. . . . The first two books. London, by
R. Norton, for Walter Kettilby, 1684. fol.

  Wing B5950.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Michigan, Hunt._


   42 Beaumont & Fletcher’s Comedies &
      Tragedies - - - Large Paper

      [Fol.      Ib.1679.               1]

Francis Beaumont (1584-1616) and John Fletcher (1579-1625). Fifty
comedies and tragedies. All in one volume. London, by J. Macock, for
John Martyn, Henry Herringman, Richard Marriot, 1679. fol.

  Wing B1582.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 40 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


   43 Boccalini’s Advertisements from Parnassus

      [Fol.      Ib.1656.               2]

Trajano Boccalini (1556-1613). I ragguagli di Parnasso: or,
Advertisements from Parnassus; in two centuries . . . put into English
by . . . Henry Earl of Monmouth. London, for Humphrey Moseley, and
Thomas Heath, 1656. fol.

  Wing B3380.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   44 Ben Jonson’s Works Old Edit.

      [Fol.      Ib. . . .              2]

Since “Old Edit” in No. 541 refers to the first folio of Shakespeare, it
is probable that “Old Edit” here refers to Jonson’s first folio printed
at London by Will Stansby, 1616.

  STC 14751.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy is extant. See J. Isaacs, _TLS_ for September 2, 1949.


   45 ---- Ditto Best Edit. _L. Papr._

      [Fol.      Ib.1692.               1]

The works of Ben Jonson. [Third edition.] . . . To which is added a
comedy called The New Inn. London, by Thomas Hodgkin, for H. Herringman,
E. Brewster, T. Bassett, R. Chiswell, M. Wotten, G. Conyers, 1692. fol.

  Wing J1006.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


   46 Blackmore’s (Sir Richd.) K. Arthur

      [Fol.      Ib.1697.               1]

Sir Richard Blackmore (d. 1729). King Arthur. An heroick poem. In twelve
books. London, for Awnsham and John Churchill, and Jacob Tonson, 1697.
fol.

  Wing B3077.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


   47 ---- Eliza, an Epick Poem

      [Fol.      Ib.1705.               1]

London, Awnsham & John Churchill, 1705. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Hunt._


   48 ---- Creation, a Philosoph. Poem

      [8vo.      Ib.1712.              28]

Creation. A philosophical poem. In seven books. London, for S. Buckley
and J. Tonson, 1712. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry._


   49 ---- Essays upon Sevl. Subjects

      [8vo.      Ib.1716.              14]

London, E. Curll; J. Pemberton, 1716. 8vo.

  _BM; NYP, Newberry, Clark._


   50 Blount’s (Tho.) Law-Dictionary and
      Glossary. 3d. Edit.

      [Fol.      Ib.1717.               1]

Thomas Blount (1618-1679). A law-dictionary and glossary . . . The third
edition. [London,] by E. Nutt, and R. Gosling for D. Browne, J. Walthoe,
1717. fol.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Minnesota, Hunt._


   51 Boadicea Q. of Britain. A Trag. by Charles
      Hopkins

      [4to.      Ib.1697.              27]

Charles Hopkins (1664?-1700?). Boadicea Queen of Britain. A tragedy.
London, for Jacob Tonson, 1697. 4to.

This play is dedicated to Congreve.

  Wing H2719.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   52 Bulstrode’s (Whitelock) Essay of Transmigra
      -tion

      [8vo.      Ib.1692.               8]

Whitelocke Bulstrode (1650-1724). An essay of transmigration, in defence
of Pythagoras: or, A discourse of natural philosophy. London, for
T. Basset, 1692. 8vo.

  Wing B5450.

  _BM; Yale, LC, Hunt._


   53 Barclay’s (Robt.) Apology for ye Quakers

      [8vo.      Ib. . . . .           14]

Robert Barclay (1648-1690). An apology for the true Christian divinity
as the same is held forth . . . by Quakers . . . a full explanation and
vindication of their principles and doctrines. London, T. Sowle, 1701.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP (1701), LC, Newberry (1701 only)._

Congreve’s copy was apparently of the fourth edition, 1701, or of the
fifth, 1703, both of which were printed in London by T. Sowle in 8vo.
The earlier London editions were in 4to.


   54 Le Berger Extravagant

      [8vo.      Rov.1640.              3]

Entry crossed through but legible.

[Charles Sorel, Sieur de Souvigny (1597?-1674).] Le berger extravagant.
Où parmy des fantasies amoureuses on void les impertinences des romans &
de la poësie. A Rouen, chez Jean Berthelin, 1639. 8vo.

  _BM._

An additional engraved title page bears the date 1640. Congreve had also
an English translation of this work. See No. 350.


   55 Balzac Oeuvres diverses

      [4to.      Paris 1644.            2]

Jean Louis Guez de Balzac (d. 1654). Les œuvres diverses du sieur de
Balzac. A Paris, par P. Rocolet, 1644. 4to.

  _BN._

A copy of this edition was item No. 33 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


   56 ---- Le Prince

      [4to.      Ib.1631.               2]

Paris, chez Toussaint du Bray, Pierre Roccolet, et Claude Sonnius, 1631.
4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry._


   57 Boileau Oeuvres avec des Eclaircissemens
      Historiques donnez p lui-meme
      2 Tom.

      [4to.      Amst.1718.            19]

Nicholas Boileau-Despréaux (1636-1711). Œuvres de Nicholas Boileau
Despréaux. Avec des éclaircissemens historiques, donnez par lui-meme.
A Amsterdam, chez David Mortier, 1718. 2 tom. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Chicago, Clark._


   58 ---- Ditto. 4 Tom. avec des Remarq
      -ues

      [12mo.     Ib.1717.              30]

Œuvres en vers . . . avec des éclaircissemens historiques. A Amsterdam,
chez les freres G. & R. Westein, 1717. 4 tom. 12mo.

  _BN._


   59 ---- Ditto 2 Tom. en-1 Vol.

      [12mo.     Ib.1695.              30]

Œuvres diverses du Sieur D*** avec le traité du sublime. A Amsterdam,
chez Antoine Schelte, 1695. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._


   60 Boyle’s (Charles) Exam. of Dr. Bentley’s
      Dissert. on Phalaris Epistles

      [8vo.      Lond.1698.            33]

Charles Boyle, Earl of Orrery (1676-1731). Dr. Bentley’s dissertations
on the Epistles of Phalaris and the Fables of Æsop. London, for Tho.
Bennet, 1698. 8vo.

Congreve’s copy could have been the first edition, Wing O469 (_BM; Harv,
NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt_) or the second edition in the same year, Wing
O470 (_BM; Harv, Princeton, Clark_).


   61 Bossu du Poeme Epique

      [12mo.     Par.1675.             12]

René Le Bossu (1631-1680). Traité du poëme épique. Paris, M. Le Petit,
1675. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, Clark._


   62 Burgersdicii Institutio Logica - - _abest Titulus_

      [8vo.      . . . . .              6]

Franco Petri Burgersdijck (1590-1635). Fr. Burgersdicii institutionum
logicarum libri duo. Cantabrigiæ, apud Joann. Hayes. . . . Prostant
venales apud Guil. Graves Jun., 1680. 8vo.

  Wing B5636.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg._

This popular textbook on logic, edited and reissued many times during
the seventeenth century, was probably represented in Congreve’s book
list by the last English edition, 1680.


   63 Bourdeille, Seignr. de Brantom, Memoires
      contenant les Vies de Dames
      Galantes de son Temps. 2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Leyd.1699.            26]

Pierre de Bourdeille, Seigneur de Brantôme (1540-1614). Memoires,
contenant les vies de dames galantes de son temps. Leyde, J. Sambix le
jeune, 1699. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Hunt._


   64 Busbequii omnia quæ extant. apd. _Elzevir_

      [24to.     Lug.Bat 1633.          5]

Augier Ghislain de Busbecq (1522-1592). A. Gislenii Busbequii omnia quæ
extant. Lugd[uni] Batavorum, ex officina Elzeviriana, 1633. 16mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   65 Bononcini Cantate et Duetti

      [Fol.      Lond.1721.            21]

Giovanni Battista Bononcini (_c._ 1672-_c._ 1752). Cantate e duetti
dedicati alla Sacra Maesta di Giorgio Re della Gran Bretagna &c. Londra
[no publisher given], 1721. fol.

  _BM; Yale, Hunt._

Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers.


   66 Barnes Homer vide Homeri &c[.]

      [....      ....                  22]

See No. 290.


   67 Bates’ Dispensatory see Dispensatory

      [....      ---                    4]

See No. 215.


   68 Boccae.s’ Nouels English

      [--        ....                  33]

    Entry by the second hand.

Giovanni Boccaccio (1313-1375). The decameron containing an hundred
pleasant nouels. London, Isaac Jaggard, 1620. 2 vol. fol.

  STC 3172.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry (Vol. 2 only), Hunt._

[Illustration: Page four of Congreve’s “Bibliotheca,” showing numbers
55-67 entered by the first hand, 68-69 by the second, and 70 by the
third. The larger cross appears before number 65.]

The spelling “nouels” makes it probable that Congreve’s copy was from
the first English translation of the _Decameron_, 1620, rather than from
one of the later translations. See also No. 123.


   69 Holy Bible in four Voloumns

      [4to       Oxford 1727           22]

    Entry by the second hand.

The Holy Bible, etc. Oxford, J. Baskett, 1727, 26. 4to.

  _BM; Harv._

Possibly Congreve had an interleaved copy of this edition in four
volumes.


   70 Bleinheim, a Poem

      [fol.      Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

[George Baron Lyttelton (1709-1773)] Bleinheim. London, for J. Roberts,
1728. fol.

  _BM; Harv._


   71 J. Cæsaris quæ exstant Tabulis æneis.
      ornata 2 Vol. Corio Russico.
      apud Tonson _Charta Imper._

      [Fol.      Lond.1712.           10.]

Gaius Julius Cæsar (102-44 B.C.). G. Julii Cæsaris quæ extant. . . .
Tabulis Æneis ornata. Londini, sumptibus & typis Jacobi Tonson, 1712. 2
vol. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1187 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


   72 ---- Commentarii emendati et recogn.
      à Jo. Rosseto

      [Fol.      Lausannæ 1571.         1]

G. Julii Cæsaris commentarii, post omnes omnium editiones accurata
sedulitate, . . . & studiosissimè recogniti à Joanne Rosseto. Lausannæ,
excudebat Joannes Probus, 1571. fol.

  _BM; Folg._


   73 ---- Commentaires avec Remarques p
      le Sr. Sanson D’
      Abbeville

      [4to.      Par.1650.             13]

Les commentaires de Cesar. . . . Remarques sur la carte de l’ancienne
Gaule tirée des commentaires de Cesar par le Sr Sanson d’Abbeville.
A Paris, chez la veuve Jean Camusat et Pierre Le Petit, 1650. 4to.

  _BN; Harv._


   74 ---- Commentaries Translated into
      Eng. by Clemt. Edmonds

      [Fol.      Lond.1677.             1]

In the Savoy [London], by Tho. Newcomb, for Jonathan Edwin, 1677. fol.

  Wing C200.

  _BM; NYP, Cincinnati, Newberry, Hunt._


   75 Chaucer’s Works Old Edit. Black Letter

      [Fol.      Ib.1561.               1]

London, Jhon Kyngston for Jhon Wight, 1561. fol.

  STC 5075 or 5076.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


   76 ---- Ditto. wth. his Life & a Glossogra
      -phy

      [Fol       Ib.1687.               1]

  Wing C3736.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 141 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


   77 ---- Ditto. wth. 3 Tales added by J.
      Urry. Best Edit.

      [Fol.      Ib.1721.              10]

Eighth edition. London, for Bernard Lintott, 1721. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   78 Cowley’s (Abrah.) Works Compt. 9. Edit.

      [Fol.      Ib.1700.               9]

Abraham Cowley (1618-1667). The works. . . . The ninth edition. To which
are added, some verses by the author, never before printed. London, for
Henry Herringman; and are to be sold by Jacob Tonson and Thomas Bennet,
1700. fol.

  Wing C6660.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Hunt._


   79 ---- Ditto. 2 Vols. wth. Cuts. _L. Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.1707.              19]

The tenth edition. Adorn’d with cuts. London, Jacob Tonson, 1707. 2 vol.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Michigan, Hunt._


   80 ---- Ditto. 2 Vols. ---- Small Pap.

      [8vo.      Ib.1707.              27]

See No. 79.

A copy of this edition (listed as 3 vols.) was a part of item No. 126
(also a part of item No. 361) in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


   81 Chardin’s (Sir Jno.) Travels into Persia &c.
      Lent to Ld. Hervy

      [Fol.      Ib.1686.               9]

Sir John Chardin (1643-1713). The travels of Sir John Chardin into
Persia and the East Indies. London, for Moses Pitt, 1686. fol.

  Wing C2043.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   82 P. Corneille Theatre 2 Tom.

      [Fol.      Roven 1664.            1]

Pierre Corneille (1606-1684). Le Théâtre de P. Corneille. 2 vol. Imprimé
à Rouen, et se vend à Paris chez Thomas Jolly, 1664. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP (v. 1, 1663, de Luyne)._

Each volume of Congreve’s copy bears this inscription: “Wm. Congreve the
gift of my ffriend Mr. Jacob Tonson Senr.” See J. Isaacs in _TLS_ for
September 2, 1949.


   83 ---- Ditto. 3 Tom.

      [8vo.      Ib.1660.              30]

Imprimé à Rouen, et se vend à Paris, chez Augustin Courbé et Guillaume
de Luyne, 1660. 3 vol. 8vo.

  _BM; BN, Harv, NYP, Hunt._


   84 T ---- Poèmes Dramatiques 2 Tom.

      [8vo.      Ib.1661.              30]

Thomas Corneille (1625-1709). Poëmes dramatiques de T. Corneille.
Imprimés à Rouen, et se vendent à Paris, chez Augustin Courbé et
Guillaume de Luyne, 1661. 3 vol. 8vo.

  _BN; Harv._


   85 Cotgraves French & Eng. Dictionary

      [Fol.      Lond.1660.             9]

Randle Cotgrave (fl. 1610). A French and English dictionary. London, by
William Hunt, 1660. fol.

  Wing C6378.

  _BM; Yale, Clark._


   86 Cooperi (Tho) Thesaurus Linguæ Rom.
      et Britan.

      [Fol.      Ib.1584.               9]

Thomas Cooper (1517?-1594). Thesaurus linguæ Romanæ & Britannicæ.
Londini, in ædibus Henrici Bynnemani, 1584. fol.

  STC 5689.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


   87 Cambridge Dictionary Eng. & Lat.

      [4to.      Camb.1693.            22]

Linguæ Romanæ dictionarium . . . a new dictionary [Engl. and Lat. Lat.
and Engl.] Cambridge, for W. Rawlins, T. Dring, R. Chiswell, C. Harper,
W. Crook, J. Place, and the executors of S. Leigh, 1693. 4to.

  Wing L2354.

  _BM; Yale, Peabody Inst. (Baltimore)._


   88 Cyder, a Poem. _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Lond.1708.            28]

John Philips (1676-1709). Cyder, a poem. In two books. London, Jacob
Tonson, 1708. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   89 Callipædia made Eng. By N. Rowe

      [8vo.      Ib.1712.              20]

Claude Quillet (1602-1661). Callipædia. A poem. In four books . . . made
English by N. Rowe. London, for E. Sanger and E. Curll, 1712. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Hunt._


   90 Cartwright’s (Wm.) Comedies, Tragi-Com.
      with other Poems

      [8vo.      Ib.1651.              20]

William Cartwright (1611-1643). Comedies, tragi-comedies, with other
poems. . . . The ayres and songs set by Mr. Henry Lawes. London, for
Humphrey Moseley, 1651. 8vo.

  Wing C709.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


   91 Catulli, Tibulli, et Propertii Opera, cum
      variis Lectionibus Ch. Majori

      [4to.      Cantabr.1702.         17]

Cantabrigiae, typis Academicis, impensis Jacobi Tonson bibliopolæ
Londin, 1702. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin._


   92 ---- Eadem cum Notis Variorum, et
      ex Recensione Graevii. 2 Vol.

      [8vo.      Traj.ad Rhen.1680      7]

Trajecti ad Rhenum, sumptibus Rudolphi a Zyll, 1680. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Illinois._


   93 ---- Eadem. cum Foliis deauratis
      apd Tonson

      [12mo.     Lond.1715.            24]

Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1715. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Illinois._


   94 ---- Eadem

      [24to.     Amst.1686.             5]

Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius, cum C. Galli fragmentis. Amsteledami,
apud Isbrandum Haring, 1686. 24to.

  _BM; Yale, Pennsylvania._


   95 Catulli Opera Separatim. ex Recensione
      Is. Vossii

      [4to.      Lugd.Bat 1691.         7]

Editio secunda. Lugduni Batavorum, apud Danielem à Graesbeeck, Cornelium
Boutesteyn, Johannis de Vivie, Petrus van der Aa, 1691. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Cincinnati._


   96 Congreve’s (Wm.) Works 3 Vols. _L. Papr._

      [8vo.      Lond.1710.            28]

London, for Jacob Tonson, 1710. 3 voi. 8vo. (The pages of the large
paper edition in the Huntington Library measure approximately 5½ by 8½
inches.)

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 548 in the Leeds Sale,
1930. Congreve presented one copy of his 1710 works to Joseph Keally
(see Congreve’s letter to Keally dated Nov. 9, 1710) and another to
A. Henley, in which he wrote on the title page, “The Gift of the Author
to A. Henley.” (See J. Isaacs in _TLS_ for September 2, 1949).


   97 ---- Ditto. 3 Vols. Small Papr.

      [8vo.      Ib.1710.              27]

Entry crossed through but legible.

See No. 96.

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 548 in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


   98 ---- Ditto. 2d Vol. _Fine Papr._

      [12mo.     Ib.1719.              27]

The works of Mr. William Congreve. . . . The third edition, revis’d by
the author. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1719. 2 vol. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Pennsylvania, Chicago._

A copy of this edition was item No. 156 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


   99 ---- Amendments of Mr Collier’s
      False & imperfect Citations
      from ye Old Batchelour &c
      Large Paper

      [8vo.      Ib.1698.               8]

London, for J. Tonson, 1698.

  Wing C5844.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  100 Collier’s (Jerem.) View of ye Eng. Stage

      [8vo.      Ib.1698.               8]

Jeremy Collier (1650-1726). A short view of the immorality, and
profaneness of the English stage. London, for S. Keble, R. Sare, and
H. Hindmarsh, 1698. 8vo.

  Wing C5263.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve probably bought the first of the three editions of 1698.

  101 _Review of Mr Colliers View_

      [8vo.      Ib.1698                8]

A defense of dramatick poetry: being a review of Mr. Collier’s View of
the immorality and profaneness of the stage. London, for Eliz. Whitlock,
1698. 8vo.

The dedication to John, Viscount Lisburne, is signed “E. S.” [Elkanah
Settle?]

  Wing F9051 (under Edward Filmer).

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

  102 _Reflections on ye Stage & Mr Collier’s_
      defence of ye View

      [8vo.      Ib.1699                8]

John Oldmixon (1678-1742). Reflections on the stage, and Mr. Collyer’s
Defense of the Short view. In four dialogues. London, for R. Parker and
P. Buck, 1699. 8vo.

  Wing 0262.

  _Yale, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

  103 _Stage Vindicated_ agt. Mr Collier
      by _Edw. Filmer_

      [8vo.      Ib.1707                8]

Edward Filmer (b. 1652?). A defense of plays: or, The stage vindicated,
from several passages in Mr. Collier’s Short view. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1707. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  104 Creech’s (Tho.) Translation of Horace

      [8vo.      Ib.1688.              20]

Thomas Creech (1659-1700). The odes, satyrs, and epistles of Horace.
Done into English. The second edition. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1688.
8vo.

  Wing H2775.

  _BM; Princeton, Michigan._


  105 Collection of Treaties, Declarations of
      War &c _from 1648 to 1710_

      [8vo.      Ib.1710.              14]

A general collection of treatys, declarations of war, manifestos, and
other publick papers, . . . from 1648 to the present time. London, by
J. Darby for Andrew Bell and E. Sanger, 1710. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Virginia, Oregon._


  106 ---- The Statutes now in force
      relating to High Treason.
      Bound in Turky Leather

      [12mo.     Ib.1709.               6]

A collection of the several statutes and parts of statutes, now in
force, relating to high treason, and misprision of high treason. London,
printed by C. Bill, and the executrix of T. Newcomb, 1709. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Minnesota, Hunt._


  107 Cuisinier Royal et Bourgeois 2 Tom.

      [8vo.      Paris 1722.           32]

Le nouveau cuisinier royal et bourgeois. 2 tom. Paris, chez Claude
Prudhomme, 1722. 12mo.

  _BM._


  108 Cebetis Tabula Gr. Lat. _Notis Tho. Johnson_

      [8vo.      Lond.1720.             6]

Cebes. Tabula. Novâ versione, in puerorum usus, donata, ex selectioribus
criticorum notis illustrata. . . . Opera Thomæ Johnson. Londini,
impensis authoris, 1720. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP._


  109 Court Cookery, or the Compleat Eng. Cook
      By _Richd. Smith_

      [8vo.      Ib.1725               32]

Court cookery: or, The compleat English cook. . . . By R. Smith, Cook
(under Mr. Lamb) to King William. London, for T. Wotton, 1725. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; LC._


  110 Compleat Court-Cook by _Mr Lamb_

      [8vo.      Ib.1710.              32]

Patrick Lamb. Royal cookery; or, The complete court-cook. Containing the
choicest receipts in all the particular branches of cookery, now in use
in the queen’s palaces of St. James’s, Kensington, Hampton-court, and
Windsor. London, for Abel Roper, and sold by John Morphew, 1710. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC._


  111 Clavis Homerica

      [8vo.      Rot.1655.              7]

Antonius Roberti (17th century). Clavis homerica, sive Lexicon
vocabulorum omnium, quæ in Iliade Homeri, nec non potissimâ Odyssæ parte
continentur . . . gr. & lat. Roterdami, ex officinâ Arnoldi Leers, 1655.
8vo.

  _BM; Pennsylvania, Chicago._


  112 Cornelianum Dolium. Comœdia

      [8vo.      Lond.1638.             5]

Thomas Randolph (1605-1635). Cornelianum dolium. Comœdia lepidissima.
. . . Auctore, T. R. Londini, apud Tho. Harperum, et væneunt per Tho.
Slaterum et Laurentium Chapman 1638. 12mo.

  STC 20691.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  113 Il Calloandro Fedele di Marini

      [12mo.     Ven.1654.              6]

Giovanni Ambrogio Marini (1594-1650).

A copy of a Venice, 1654, edition has not been found.

A copy published at Venice in 1652 may be consulted at the Biblioteca
Apostolica Vaticana in Rome.


  114 Il Celimauro, Istoria Spagnvola

      [12mo.     Nap.1622.              5]

Not positively identified. Perhaps this was an Italian translation of a
Spanish novel, the same novel that Antonio Giulio Brignole Sale
(1605-1665) used about twenty years later as the source for _his_
_L’Istoria Spagnuola o il Celidoro_.


  115 Cervantes Il Novelliere Castigliano

      [8vo.      Ven.1626.              3]

Miguel de Cervantes Saavadra (1547-1616). Il novelliere Castigliano
. . . tradotto dalla lingua Spagnuola nell’Italiana dal Sig. Guglielmo
Alessandro de Nouilieri, Clauelli. In Venetia, presso il Barezzi, 1626.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Pennsylvania, California._


  116 ---- Nouvelles 2 Tom.

      [12mo.     Amst.1709.            26]

Nouvelles . . . traduction nouvelle. Seconde édition, augmentée de
plusieurs histoires. A Amsterdam, chez Claude Jordan, 1709. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._


  117 Charron of Wisdom, English’d by Dr
      _Stanhope_ 2 Vols[.]

      [8vo.      Long.1697.            33]

Pierre Charron (1541-1603). Of Wisdom. Three books. Written originally
in French, by the Sieur de Charron. . . . Made English by George
Stanhope. London, for M. Gillyflower, etc., 1697. 2 vol. 8vo. [The first
volume (516 pp.) contains Book I and the second volume (708 pp.), Books
II and III.]

  Wing C3720.

  _Bodleian; NYP, Princeton, Cincinnati, Clark._


  118 Celsus (Corn.) de Medicina

      [8vo.      Amst.1713              4]

Aulus Cornelius Celsus (53 B.C.-7 A.D.). Aur. Corn. Celsi de medecina
libri octo. Amstelædami, apud Joannem Wolters, 1713. 8vo.

  _Royal College of Surgeons (London); Harv, Columbia, Chicago._


  119 Comte de Gabalis, ou Entretiens sur les
      Sciences Secretes

      [12mo.     Paris 1670.           29]

[Abbé de Montfaucon de Villars (_c._ 1635-1673).] Le Comte de Gabalis,
ou Entretiens sur les sciences secretes. A Paris, chez Claude Barbin,
1670. 12mo.

  _BM; Tennessee._

Congreve’s copy, with “Will Congreve” on the title page, is now in the
library of the University of Tennessee.


  120 Contes Arabes [les Mille et Une Nuit]
      p Mr. Galland 12 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1705.              23]

Antoine Galland (1646-1715). Les mille & une nuit. Contes arabes.
A Paris, chez la veuve de Claude Barbin, 1704-1717. 11 vol. 12mo.

  _BN._


  121 ---- Persans [les Mille et un Jour]
      p Mr. de la Croix 5 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1710.              23]

François Pétis de la Croix (1653-1713). Les mille & un jour. Contes
persans, traduits en françois. A Paris, en la boutique de Claude Barbin,
chez la veuve Ricoeur, 1710-12. 5 tom. 12mo. [Volumes II-V are dated
1711 or 1712, and the booksellers vary.]

  _BN; LC._


  122 ---- Chinois, ou Vie du Mandarin
      Fum-Hoam 2 Tom[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1723.              30]

Thomas-Simon Gueulette (1683-1766). Les aventures merveilleuses du
mandarin Fum-Hoam, contes chinois. A Paris, Denis Moughet, 1723. 2 tom.
12mo.

  _BM; NYP, LC, Newberry._


  123 Contes et Nouvelles de Boccace avec
      Fig. 2 Tom[.]

      [8vo.      Col.1712.             23]

Giovanni Boccaccio (1313-1375). Contes et nouvelles. . . . Traduction
libre, accommodée au goût de ce temps. Seconde edition. A Cologne, chez
Jacques Gaillard, 1712. 2 tom. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Harv._


  124 ---- de Marg. de Valois
      avec Fig. 2 Tom[.]

      [8vo.      Amst.1700.            23]

Margaret d’Angoulême, Queen Consort of Henry II, King of Navarre
(1492-1549). Contes et nouvelles de Marguerite de Valois, reine de
Navarre. 2 tom. A Amsterdam, chez George Gallet, 1700. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._


  125 ---- de la Fontain avec
      Fig. 2 Tom[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1721.              30]

Jean de La Fontaine (1621-1695). Contes et nouvelles en vers.
A Amsterdam, chez N. Etienne Lucas, 1721. 8vo.

  _BM; Pennsylvania._


  126 ---- le Mème Livre 2 Tom
      en 1 Vol[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1699.              25]

Contes et nouvelles en vers. A Amsterdam, chez Pierre Brunel, 1699. 2
tom. in 1. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Clark._


  127 Chomel Abregé de L’Histoire des
      Plantes Usuelles

      [8vo.      Par.1712.              4]

Pierre Jean Baptiste Chomel (1671-1740). Abrégé de l’histoire des
plantes usuelles. Dans lequel on donne leur noms differens, françois et
latins. La maniere de s’en servir, la dose, & les principales
compositions de pharmacie, dans lesquelles elles sont employées.
A Paris, Charles Osmont, 1712. 12mo.

  _BM; Library of U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Michigan._


  128 Culpeper’s London Dispensatory

      [12mo.     Lond.1654              4]

Nicholas Culpeper (1616-1654). Pharmacopœia Londinensis: or The London
dispensatory. London, printed by a well-wisher of the Common-wealth of
England, 1654. 12mo.

  Wing C7526.

  _BM; Yale, U.S. Surgeon General’s Office._


  129 Conjuration des Espagnols contre la
      Repub. de Venise

      [12mo.     Paris 1683.           24]

César Vichard de Saint-Réal (1639-1692). Conjuration des Espagnols
contre la republique de Venise en l’anneé M.D.C.XVIII. A Paris, chez
Claude Barbin, 1674. 12mo.

  _Aberdeen, BN, Royal Library (The Hague)._

A copy of a 1683 edition has not been found.


  130 Chifflet Grammaire de la Langue Francois

      [12mo.     Brux.1688             24]

Laurent Chifflet. Essay d’une parfaite grammaire, de la langue
françoise. A Bruxelles, chez Lambert Marchant, 1680. 12mo.

  _Amsterdam._

A copy of a 1688 edition has not been found.


  131 Cluverii Introductio in Geographiam

      [24to.     Amsterd.               5]

Philippus Cluverius (1580-1622). Introductionis in universam geographiam
tam veterem quam novam libri VI. Amstelodami, ex officina Elzeviriana,
1659. 24to.

  _Liverpool, BN; Harv, Philadelphia, LC._


  132 Corn. Nepos . . . . Foliis deauratis apd. Tonson

      [12mo.     Lond.1715             24]

Cornelius Nepos (_c._ 99-_c._ 24 B.C.). Excellentium imperatorum vitæ.
[Edited by Michael Maittaire.] Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, &
Johannis Watts, 1715. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  133 Cambrai (Evêque de) vide Salignac

      [....      ....                  18]

See Nos. 575-578.


  134 Ciceronis de Officiis Libri 3 cum Notis variorum
      ex Recensione _Grævii_ 3 Vol.
      Typis Blavianis

      [8vo.      Amsterd.1688          31]

Marcus Tullius Cicero (106-43 B.C.). De officiis libri tres. Cato major,
Laelius, paradoxa, somnium Scipionis. Ex recensione Joannis Georgii
Grævii. Amstelodami, ex typographia P. & I. Blaeu, 1688. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Indiana._


  135 ---- Idem sine Notis ex Recens.
      Graevii

      [12mo.     Ib.1689.              32]

M. Tullii Ciceronis de officiis libri tres. . . . Ex recensione Joannis
Georgii Grævii. Amstelodami, apud H. Wetstenium, 1689. 12mo.

  _BM; Chicago._


  136 ---- Epistolarum Libri XVI. ad
      Familiares. ex Recensione
      Grævii

      [12mo.     Ib.1689.              32]

M. Tullii Ciceronis epistolarum libri XVI. ad familiares . . . ex
recensione Io. Georgii Grævii cum ejusdem animadversionibus.
Amstelaedami, apud Henricum Wetstenium, 1689. 12mo.

  _BM; Virginia._


  137 ---- Opera Notis Gronovii
      XI. Vol[.]

      [12mo.     Lug.Bat.1692          33]

Marci Tulli Ciceronis opera quae extant omnia . . . ab Jacobo Gronovio.
Lugduni Batavorum, apud Petrum vander Aa, 1692. 12mo.

  _BM; Chicago._


  138 ---- de Oratore ad Fratrem Q.
      ex Recensione _Tho. Cockman_

      [8vo.      Oxon 1696             32]

Oxoniæ, e theatro Sheldoniano, 1696. 8vo.

  Wing C4298.

  _BM; Yale, Chicago._


  139 ---- de Finibus, Made English
      by S. P. & Revis’d by Mr
      Jer. Collier

      [8vo.      Lond.1702             32]

Tully’s five books de finibus. . . . Done into English by S. P. Gent.
[i.e., Samuel Parker.] Revis’d. . . . By Jeremy Collier. London, for
Jacob Tonson and Robert Gibson, 1702. 8vo.

  _BM; Boston Public, Union Theological Seminary, Chicago, Clark._


  140 ---- de Finibus cum Notis Tho. Bentley

      [8vo.      Cantab.1718           32]

M. T. Ciceronis de finibus bonorum et malorum. . . . Emendavit, notisque
illustravit Thomas Bentley. Cantabrigiæ, typis academicis, 1718. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Michigan._


  141 ---- Cato Major, Lælius, et Somnium
      Scipionis

      [24to      . . .                 24]

De officis libri 3. Cato major . . . Laelius . . . paradoxa . . .
somnium Scipionis. Amstelodami, ex officinâ Elzevirianâ, 1677. 24to.

  _BM; Harv, Newberry._

Perhaps Congreve’s copy was from this edition or from one of the
editions in 24to issued in 1700 and 1703. Copies of the three editions
may be consulted at Harvard.


  142 ---- Traité de la Divination, p
      Mr. l’Abbe Regnier Desmarais

      [8vo.      Amst.1711             12]

Traité de la divination traduit du Latin de Ciceron, par Mr. l’Abbé
Regnier des Marais. A Amsterdam, chez Isaac Trojel, 1711. 8vo.

  _BM; Princeton._


  143 ---- Epistolarum Libri XVI ad
      Familiares cum Notis Var.
      Ex Recensione _Grævii_. 4 Tom.

      [8vo       Ib.1693.              31]

M. Tullii Ciceronis epistolarum libri XVI. . . . ex recensione Joannis
Georgii Grævii. 4 tom. Amstelodami, ex typographia P. & I. Blaeu, 1693.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Johns Hopkins, Michigan._


  144 ---- Epistolarum Libri XVI ad
      Atticum cum Notis Variorum.
      Ex Recensione _Grævii_. 4 Tom.

      [8vo.      Ib.1684.              31]

M. Tullii Ciceronis epistolarum libri XVI ad T. Pomponium Atticum. Ex
recensione Joannis Georgii Graevii. Amstelædami, sumptibus Blaviorum, &
Henrici Wetstenii, 1684. 2 vol. text and 2 vol. notes. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Pennsylvania, Michigan._


  145 ---- Orationes cum Variorum Notis
      Ex Recensione _Grævii_. 14 Tom.

      [8vo.      Ib.1699               31]

M. Tullii Ciceronis oratione sex recensione Joannis Georgii Grævii.
Amstelodami, P. & I. Blaeu, 1699, [95-99.] 6 vol. text, 7 vol. notes,
indexes. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Pennsylvania, Illinois._


  146 ---- de Natura Deorum cum Var
      Notis. Ex Recens. _Davisii_

      [8vo.      Cantabr.1718          31]

Cantabrigiæ, impensis Cornelii Crownfield, 1718. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._


  147 ---- Tusculanarum Disputationum
      Libri V. cum Comment. _Davisii_

      [8vo.      Ib.1723.              31]

Editio secunda, auctior et emendatior. Cantabrigiæ, sumptibus Cornelii
Crownfield, 1723. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP._


  148 ---- Academica cum Comment. _Davisii._

      [8vo.      Ib.1725.              31]

Cantabrigiae, sumptibus Corn. Crownfield, 1725. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._


  149 ---- Libri de Divinatione et de
      Fato. cum Var Notis et _Davisii_

      [8vo.      Ib.1721.              31]

Cantabrigiæ, sumptibus Cornelii Crownfield, 1725. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._


  150 Comines (Phil. de) Memoires p Denys
      Godefroy 3 Tom[.]

      [8vo       Bruss.1706            11]

Philippe de Comines, Seigneur d’Argenton (1445-1509). Memoirs . . .
contenans l’histoire des Rois Louys XI. & Charles VIII. depuis l’an 1464
jusques en 1498. Augumentez . . . par feu Mr. Denys Godefroy.
A Brusselle, chez François Foppens, 1706. 3 tom. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Hunt._

Congreve apparently did not have the fourth volume, which appeared in
1714.


  151 ---- History, wth. Annotations

      [Fol.      Lond.1674.             2]

The history of Philip de Commines, Knight, Lord of Argenton. The fourth
edition corrected, with annotations. London, for Samuel Mearne, John
Martyn, and Henry Herringman, 1674. fol.

  Wing C5542.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Illinois._


  152 Camoens Luciad, or Portugal’s Historical
      Poem, Englishd by Rd Fanshaw

      [Fol.      Ib.1655.               2]

Luiz de Camoens (1524?-1580). The Lusiad . . . put into English by
Richard Fanshaw. London, for Humphrey Moseley, 1655. fol.

Congreve’s copy, with his signature on the title page, was item No. 125
in the Leeds Sale, 1930.

  Wing C397.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  153 Chapman’s Homer. vide Homer

      [--        ---                   21]

See No. 292.


  154 Council of Trent vide Paul’s History &c[.]

      [--        ---                   15]

See No. 453.


  155 Christian Religion &c vide Religion of
      a Church of Engld. Woman

      [--        ---                   14]

See No. 515.


  156 Comte de Clare vide Religieuse Amoureuse.

      [....      ---                   26]

Entry crossed through but legible.

See No. 520.


  157 Collection of Poems [ye Grove]

      [8vo.      Ib.1721.              20]

The grove; or, A collection of original poems, translations, &c. By
W. Walsh, J. Donne, Dryden, . . . Sir J. Suckling, etc. London, for
W. Mears, 1721. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  158 Celsus De Medecina

      [8{vo}.     Lug:Bat:               4]

    Entry by the second hand.

Aulus Cornelius Celsus (53 B.C.-7 A.D.). Aurelii Cornelii Celsi de re
medica libro octo. Lugduni Batavorum, ex officina Plantiniana, apud
Franciscum Raphelengium, 1592. Small 4to.

  _BM; Harv, LC, John Crerar._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1256 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  159 La Cyropedie de Charpentier 2 Tom. 1 vol.

      [12mo      La Hay.1717         ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

François Charpentier (1620-1702). La cyropædie, ou L’histoire de Cyrus;
traduite du grec de Xenophon. A La Haye, pour Paul & Isaac Vaillant,
1717. 2 tom. Small 8vo.

  _Bibliothèque Royale (Brussels)._


  160 Dryden’s (Jno.) Comedies, Tragedies
      & Opera’s. 2 Vols. Large Papr.

      [Fol.      London 1721.          10]

John Dryden (1631-1700). The comedies, tragedies, and operas. . . . Now
first collected together, and corrected from the originals. In two
volumes. London, for Jacob Tonson, Thomas Bennet, and Richard
Wellington, 1701. fol.

  Macdonald 107 a i.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Clark._

The “1721” of Congreve’s List is apparently an error for “1701.” A large
paper copy of the 1701 edition was item No. 210 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  161 ---- Translation of Virgil.
      with 100 Sculptures L. Papr[.]

      [Fol.      Ib.1697.              10]

The works of Virgil: containing his pastorals, georgics, and Æneis.
Translated into English verse; by Mr. Dryden. London, for Jacob Tonson,
1697. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1180 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930. Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers
as “Mr. Will Congreve.”


  162 ---- Ditto. Small Paper

      [Fol.      Ib.1697.               9]

See No. 161.


  163 ---- Juvenal & Persius L. Paper

      [Fol.      Ib.1693.              10]

The satires of Decimus Junius Juvenalis. Translated . . . by Mr. Dryden,
and several other eminent hands. Together with the satires of Aulus
Persius Flaccus. Made English by Mr. Dryden. London, for Jacob Tonson,
1693. fol.

  Wing J1288.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

For this edition Congreve translated the Eleventh Satire of Juvenal and
contributed verses “To Mr. Dryden on His Translation of Persius.”


  164 ---- Fables Ancient & Modern

      [Fol.      Ib.1700.               9]

Fables ancient and modern; translated into verse, from Homer, Ovid,
Boccace, & Chaucer. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1700. fol.

  Wing D2278.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._


  165 ---- Works 3d. Vol. vizt. Original
      Poems & Translations

      [Fol.      Ib.1701.               9]

The works of Mr. John Dryden. The third volume. Consisting of the
author’s original poems and translations. Now first publish’d together.
London, for Jacob Tonson, 1701. fol.

  Macdonald 108 (2).

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Hunt._


  166 ---- Works 3d. Vol [Plays]

      [4to.      Ib.1695.              27]

The third volume of the works of Mr. John Dryden. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1695. 4to.

  Wing D2210; Macdonald 106 e.

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Clark._


  167 ---- Works 4th. Vol [Poems]

      [4to.      Ib.1695.              27]

The fourth volume of the works of Mr. John Dryden. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1695. 4to.

  Wing D2210; Macdonald 106 e.

  _BM; Yale Folg, Clark._


  168 ---- Collection of Miscellany Poems
      in 6 Vols[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1702 &c.           27]

Miscellany poems: the first (-sixth) part. . . . Publish’d by Mr.
Dryden. The third edition. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1702, 1693-1709.
8vo.

  Macdonald 42 c, etc.; Case 172 (1) (d), etc.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Michigan, Clark._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1110 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  169 ---- Ditto 6 Vols[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1716.              27]

Fourth edition. 6 pts. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1716. 12mo.

  Macdonald 49; Case 172 (1) (e), etc.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Michigan, Hunt._


  170 ---- Dramatick Works 6 Vols[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1717.              27]

The dramatick works of John Dryden, Esq. London, for Jacob Tonson: and
sold by R. Knaplock, W. Taylor, W. Mearns, J. Browne, W. Churchill,
E. Symon, and J. Brotherton, 1717. 6 vol. 12mo.

This is the edition by Congreve with the famous introduction
characterizing Dryden.

  Macdonald 109 a i.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Clark._


  171 ---- Essay on Dram. Poetry &c[.]

      [4to.      -1684                 27]

Of dramatick poesie, an essay. By John Dryden, servant to His Majesty.
Second edition. London, for Henry Herringman, 1684. 4to.

  Wing D2328; Macdonald 127 b i.

See also No. 406, which was apparently a second copy of Dryden’s essay
bound with other works.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Illinois, Hunt._


  172 Dictionaire Historique et Critique p
      Mr. Bayle 4 Tom[.]

      [Fol.      Rotterd.1720.         16]

Pierre Bayle (1647-1706). Dictionnaire historique et critique. Troisième
édition. 4 tom. Rotterdam, chez Michel Bohm, 1720. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Ohio Wesleyan._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1175 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  173 ---- Universelle Fr. et Lat
      5 Tom.

      [Fol.      aTrevoux 1721.        10]

Dictionnaire universel François et Latin. Nouvelle édition. 5 tom.
Imprimé à Trévoux, & se vend à Paris, chez Florentin Delaulne, etc.,
1721. fol.

  _BM; Illinois._


  174 ---- Francois p Richelet

      [4to.      Genev.1693            22]

Pierre Richelet (1631-1698). Dictionaire François . . . corrigée
augmentée [by E. Souciet]. A Geneve, pour David Ritter, chez Vincent
Miége, 1693. 4to.

  _BM._


  175 ---- Italien et Francois p
      Veneroni

      [4to.      Paris 1710            22]

Giovanni Veneroni (1642-1708). Dictionaire italien et françois,
contenant tout ce qui se trouve dans les autres dictionaires. . . .
Nouv. ed. A Paris, chez Michel David, 1710. 4to.

  _Aberdeen, BN; LC._


  176 ---- Comique, Satyrique, Critique
      p le Roux

      [8vo.      Amst.1718             23]

Philibert Joseph Le Roux (d. _c._ 1790). Dictionnaire comique,
satyrique, critique, burlesque, libre & proverbial. A Amsterdam, chez
Michel Charles. Le Cène, 1718. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Newberry._


  177 Davenant’s (Sir Wm.) Works Compleat.

      [Fol.      London 1673.           9]

Sir William Davenant (1606-1668). The works of. London, by T. N. for
Henry Herringman, 1673. fol.

  Wing D320.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._


  178 ---- Discourse upon Gondibert

      [12mo.     Ib.1650.               5]

A Paris, chez Matthieu Guillemot, 1650. 12mo.

  Wing D322.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 182 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  179 ---- (Dr.) Essay on ye East India
      Trade

      [8vo.      Ib.1696                8]

Charles Davenant (1656-1714). An essay on the East-India-trade. By the
author of The essay upon wayes and means. London, for J. K., 1696. 8vo.

  Wing D307.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Columbia, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 181 in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


  180 Dictionarium Historicum Geogr. Poet.
      p Car Stephanum et N.
      Lloydium

      [Fol.      Ib.1686.               9]

Charles Estienne (1504-1564). Dictionaricum historicum, geographicum,
poeticum . . . a Carolo Stephano . . . Nicolaum Lloydium. Londini,
impensis B. Tooke, T. Passenger, T. Sawbridge, A. Swalle & A. Churchill,
1686. fol.

  Wing E3349.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Chicago, Hunt._


  181 ---- Spanish & Eng. by Minsheu

      [Fol.      ib.1599.               2]

Richard Perceval (1550-1620). A dictionarie in Spanish and English,
first published . . . by Ric[hard] Percivale . . . enlarged . . . by
John Minsheu. London, by E, Bollifant, 1599. fol.

  STC 19620.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  182 Donne’s Poems

      [4to.      London.1633.          20]

John Donne (1573-1631). Poems. With elegies on the authors death.
London, by M. F[lesher] for John Marriot, 1633. 4to.

  STC 7045.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 200 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  183 ---- Ditto

      [8vo.      Ib.1669.              20]

Poems. . . . With elegies on the authors death. To which is added divers
copies under his own hand, never before printed. In the Savoy [London],
by T. N. for Henry Herringman, 1669. 8vo.

  Wing D1871.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 631 in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


  184 Diemerbroeck Anatome Corporis Humani

      [4to.      Ultraj.1672.           4]

Isbrandus de Diemerbroeck (1609-1674). Anatome corporis humani.
Ultrajecti, sumptibus & typis Meinardi à Dreunen, 1672. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Minnesota._

Congreve’s copy, with “Will: Congreve ex dono D: Hobbs,” was item No.
194 in the Leeds Sale, 1930. According to Professor J. Isaacs (_TLS_ for
September 2, 1949) the inscription reads, “Willm. Congreve ex dono Dr.
Hobbs.”


  185 Descartes Compendium of Musick

      [4to.      Lond.1657.             3]

  Wing does not list a 1657 edition of René Descartes’ _Compendium_. The
1653 edition (Wing D1132), probably the one in Congreve’s library, may
be consulted in _BM; Harv, Newberry, and Clark_. This edition was
printed in London, by Thomas Harper, for Humphrey Moseley and Thomas
Heath, 1653. 4to.


  186 Dennis (Jno.) Select Works 2 Vols
      _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.1718.              28]

John Dennis (1657-1734). The select works of Mr. John Dennis. In two
volumes. London, for John Darby, 1718. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry._


  187 ---- Remarks on Prince Arthur

      [8vo.      Ib.1696.               8]

Remarks on a book entituled, Prince Arthur, an heroick poem. With some
general critical observations, and several new remarks upon Virgil.
London, for S. Heyrick and R. Sare, 1696. 8vo.

  Wing D1040.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Clark._


  188 ---- Remarks on ye Fable of ye Bees

      [8vo.      Ib.1724.              33]

Vice and luxury publick mischiefs: or Remarks on a book intituled The
fable of the bees; or, Private vices publick benefits. London, for
W. Mears, 1724. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Texas, Hunt._


  189 ---- Original Letters

      [4to.      Ib.1721.              33]

Original letters, familiar, moral and critical. London, for W. Mears,
1721. 2 vol. in 1. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  190 Dacier (Madame) Anacreon et Sapho

      [12mo.     Amst.1699.            25]

Anne Lefèvre, afterwards Dacier (1654-1720). Les poesies d’Anacreon et
de Sapho, traduites de grec en françois, avec des remarques.
A Amsterdam, chez Paul Marret, 1699. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Williamsburg Colonial._


  191 ---- Comedies de Terence 3 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1706.              25]

Les comedies de Terence, traduites en françois, avec des remarques, par
Madame Dacier. A Amsterdam, aux dépens de Gaspar Fritsch, 1706. 3 tom.
12mo.

  _BM; Chicago._


  192 ---- Comedies d’Aristophane

      [12mo.     Ib.1692.              25]

Comedies grecques d’Aristophane. Traduites en françois, avec des notes
critiques, & un examen de chaque piece selon les regles du theatre. Par
Madame Dacier. A Paris, chez Denys Thierry et Claude Barbin, 1692. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Boston Public, NYP._

Congreve’s copy, with the signature “W: Congreve” on the title page, is
now in the Boston Public Library.


  193 ---- L’Odysseè d’Homere 3 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Paris.1716.           18]

L’Odyssée d’Homere, traduite en françois, avec des remarques par Madame
Dacier. Paris, aux dêpens de Rigaud, 1716. 3 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._


  194 ---- L’Iliade d’Homere 3 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1711.              18]

L’Iliade d’Homere, traduite en françois, avec des remarques par Madame
Dacier. Paris, chez Rigaud, 1711. 3 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  195 ---- de la Corruption du Goust

      [12mo.     Ib.1714.              18]

Des causes de la corruption du goust. A Paris, aux dépens de Rigaud,
1714. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Michigan, Clark._


  196 ---- Homer’s Iliad Translated
      by Mr Ozell 5 Vols[.]

      [12mo.     London 1712.           6]

The Iliad . . . with notes. To which are prefix’d, a large preface, and
the life of Homer, by Madam Dacier. Done from the French by Mr. Ozell,
[Broome, and Oldisworth], London, by G. James, for Bernard Lintott,
1712. 5 vol. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._


  197 ---- (Monsieur) Trag. de Sophocle

      [12mo.     Amst.1693.            25]

André Dacier (1651-1722). L’Œdipe et l’Electre de Sophocle. . . .
Traduites en françois avec des remarques. A Paris, chez Claude Barbin,
1692. 12mo.

  _BM._

A copy of an Amsterdam edition of 1693 has not been found.


  198 ---- Poetique d’Aristote

      [12mo.     Ib.1692.              12]

La poetique d’Aristote, contenant les regles les plus exactes pour juger
du poëme heröíque, & des pieces de théâtre. . . . Traduite en françois
. . . par Mr. [André] Dacier. A Amsterdam, chez George Gallet, 1692.
12mo.

  _Bodleian; Harv, Newberry._

In the manuscript _List_ the “Ib.” is crossed through, but nothing is
substituted. For Congreve’s Latin translation of the _Poetica_ see
No. 8.


  199 ---- Oeuvres d’Horace en Lat
      et Francois 10 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1709.              18]

Troisiéme edition . . . augmentée par l’auteur. 10 tom. A Paris,
J.-B.-Christophe Ballard, 1709. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  200 Dale (Sam.) Pharmacologia 2 Vol[.]

      [12mo.     London 1710.           4]

Samuel Dale (1659?-1739). Pharmacologia, seu Manuductio ad materiam
medicam. . . . Iterata editio, emendata & aucta. Londini, apud Benj.
Walford, 1710. 12mo.

  _BM; Missouri Botanical Garden._


  201 ---- Lat. 1 Vol.

      [....      1705                ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Pharmacologiae . . . supplementum. Londini, impensis Sam. Smith & Benj.
Walford, 1705. 12mo.

  _BM; U.S. Surgeon General’s Office._


  202 Dion Cassius’s History Abridg’d by Xiphilin.
      Translated by Mr Manning
      2 Vols[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1704.              13]

London, for A. & J. Churchill, 1704. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, California._


  203 Dodwell’s (Hen.) Epistolary Discourse
      about ye Soul

      [8vo.      Ib.1706.              14]

Henry Dodwell (1641-1711). An epistolary discourse, proving, from the
Scriptures . . . that the soul is a principle naturally mortal; but
immortalized actually by the pleasure of God. London, for R. Smith,
1706. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Texas._


  204 Discourse of ye Grounds & Reasons
      of Christian Religion

      [8vo.      Ib.1724.              14]

Anthony Collins (1676-1729). A discourse of the grounds and reasons of
the Christian religion. In two parts. London, [no printer given], 1724.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, California._


  205 Doctrine of Chances or Method of
      Calculating ye Probability
      of Events in Play

      [4to.      Ib.1718.               2]

Abraham de Moivre (1667-1754). The doctrine of chances: or, A method of
calculating the probability of events in play. London, by W. Pearson for
the author, 1718. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, John Crerar._


  206 Don Quixote Vida y Hechos 2 Tom.

      [8vo.      Amberes 1697.         11]

Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (1547-1616). Vida y hechos del ingenioso
Cavallero Don Quixote de la Mancha. Amberes, H. y C. (or J. B.)
Verdussen, 1697. 2 tom. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC._


  207 ---- Ditto Parte 1

      [8vo.      Bruss.1662             8]

En Bruselas, Juan Mommarte, 1662. 2 tom. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._

Congreve had only the first of two parts. Compare item No. 179 in the
Leeds Sale, 1930, where a copy of this edition was described as “Parte
Primera _only_ (_should be two_).”


  208 ---- Translated into English

      [Fol.      Lond.1652.             2]

The history of the valorous and witty-knight-errant, Don-Quixote, of the
Mancha. Translated out of the Spanish; now newly corrected and amended.
London, by Richard Hodkinsonne, for Andrew Crooke, 1652. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 134 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  209 ---- done into English 2 Vols.

      [4to.      Ib.1620.               3]

The history of Don-Quichote. London, for Ed. Blounte, 1620. 2 vol. 4to.

  STC 4916-4917.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Virginia, Hunt._


  210 Don Quichotto Histoire en 4 Tom.

      [12mo.     Paris 1679.           23]

Histoire de l’admirable Don Quixotte de la Manche. A Paris, chez Claude
Barbin, 1678. 4 tom. 12mo.

  _BN._

A copy of the second edition, 1679, has not been found.


  211 Demosthenes Orations, done from ye Greek
      by Several Hands

      [12mo.     Ib.1702.              11]

Demosthenes (385?-322 B.C.). Several orations of Demosthenes. . . .
English’d from the Greek by several hands. London, for Jacob Tonson,
1702. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Chicago._


  212 ---- Philippiques avec Remarques

      [4to.      ibid.1701.            22]

Philippiques de Démosthène, avec des remarques. A Paris, chez la veuve
de Claude Barbin, 1701. 4to.

  _BN; Yale._


  213 Dispensatory, Compleat English, by _Quincy_

      [8vo.      Ib.1718.               4]

John Quincy (d. 1722). Pharmacopœia officinalis & extemporanea: or,
A compleat English dispensatory. London, A. Bell, etc., 1718. 8vo.

  _BM; Michigan._


  214 ---- of ye Royal College by _Ditto_

      [8vo.      Ib.1721.               4]

The dispensatory of the Royal College of Physicians. London, by
W. Bowyer, for R. Knaplock, B. Took, D. Midwinter, R. Smith, W. and
J. Innys, and J. Osborn, 1721. 8vo.

  _BM; Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science._


  215 ---- by _Salmon & Bates_ 4th Edit.

      [8vo.      Ib.1713.               4]

William Salmon (1644-1713). Pharmacopœia Bateana: or Bate’s
dispensatory. . . . The fourth edition. London, for W. Innys, 1713. 8vo.

  _BM; Richmond (Va.) Academy of Medicine._


  216 ---- London, _by Salmon_ 7th Edit.

      [8vo.      Ib.1707.               4]

Pharmacopœia Londinensis: or, The new London dispensatory. . . . The
seventh edition, corrected and amended. London, by J. Dawks, for
R. Chiswell, M. Wotton, J. Walthoe, G. Conyers, J. Nicholson, J. Sprint,
and T. Ballard, 1707. 8vo.

  _Wellcome Historical Medical Library (London)._


  217 ---- 2d. Part, or Doron Medicum,
      by _Salmon_

      [8vo.      Ib.1718.               4]

Doron medicum: or, A supplement to the new London dispensatory. London,
for T. Dawks, T. Bassett, J. Wright, and R. Chiswell, 1683. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._

A copy of a 1718 edition has not been found.


  218 ---- London by Culpeper

      [12mo.     Ib.1654.               4]

See No. 128.


  219 E. of Danby’s Letters _Duke of Leeds_

      [8vo.      Ib.1710               33]

Thomas Osborne, 1st Duke of Leeds (1631-1712). Copies and extracts of
some letters written to and from the Earl of Danby (now Duke of Leeds)
in the years 1676, 1677, and 1678. London, for John Nicholson, 1710.
8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Newberry._


  220 Discourse upon Gondibert Vide Davenant

      [----      ....                   5]

See No. 178.


  221 Cullpepers Dispensatory and English physn[.]

      [8vo.      Lon 1675.              4]

    Entry by the second hand.

Nicholas Culpeper (1616-1654). Pharmacopœia Londinensis; or The London
dispensatory. London, for George Sawbridge, 1675. 8vo.

  _Royal College of Physicians (London), Cambridge; Cushing Library
  (Yale Medical School)._

Congreve’s No. 221 was probably made up of this work bound with
Culpeper’s _The English Physitian_, which appeared in 1653 and many
later editions.


  222 2 Dissertations concerning Sense, the Imagination, &c[.]

      [8vo.      Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

[Zachary Mayne (fl. 1728)]. Two dissertations concerning sense, and the
imagination. With an essay on consciousness. London, for J. Tonson,
1728. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Chicago._


  223 Demosthene, Phillippiques traduites en Francois 2 vol[.]

      [24to      Ams.1688            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Demosthenes (385?-322 B.C.). Traduction des Philippiques de Demosthene.
A Amsterdam, chez Pierre Mortier, 1688. 2 tom. small 12mo.

  _BN; Yale, LC._


  224 Dunton’s Journal of the Sally Fleet

      [4to       Lon.1637            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

John Dunton, Mariner. A true journall of the Sally fleet, with the
proceedings of the voyage. London, by John Dawson for Thomas Nicholes,
1637. 4to.

  STC 7357.

  _BM; NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  225 Daniels History vid. R.

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 528.


  226 Echard’s (Laur.) History of England
      from Julius Cæsar to ye End
      of K. James 1st. Large Papr[.]

      [Fol.      Lond.1707.            16]

Laurence Echard (1670?-1730). The history of England. From the first
entrance of Julius Cæsar and the Romans, to the end of the reign of King
James the First. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1707. fol.

  _BM; Yale, LC, Michigan._

Congreve had only the first of three volumes.


  227 ---- Roman History - - 2 Vols.

      [8vo.      Ib.1696.              13]

The Roman history, from the building of the city, to the perfect
settlement of the empire, etc. London, by T. Hodgkin, for
M. Gillyflower, etc., 1696-98. 2 vol. 8vo.

  Wing E152.

  _Cambridge; St. Benedict’s College (Atchison, Kansas)._


  228 ---- Ditto continued 3 Vols
      _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.1704.              13]

London, for Jacob Tonson (1704) and W. Freeman, etc. (1705, 1706),
1704-1706. 3 vol. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Boston Public, Oberlin._


  229 English Military Discipline

      [12mo.     Ib.1680.               8]

English military discipline. Or, The way and method of exercising horse
& foot. . . . With a treatise of all sorts of arms and engines of war.
London, for Robert Harford, 1680. 8vo.

  Wing E3105A.

  _BM; Harv, Hunt._


  230 Erasmi Adagiorum Epitome

      [12mo.     Amst.1649.             5]

Desiderius Erasmus (1466?-1536). Adagiorum D. Erasmi . . . epitome. Ex
novissima Chiliadum ceu ipsorum fontium recognitione excerpta. . . . Cum
indice rerum ac verborum. Amsterodami, apud Joan. Janssonium, 1649.
12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Chicago, Washington State._


  231 Essays & Characters [Microcosmographie]

      [12mo.     Lond.1629.             5]

John Earle, Bishop of Salisbury (1601?-1665). Micro-cosmographie. Or,
A peece of the world discovered; in essayes and characters. The fifth
edition much enlarged. London, for Robert Allot, 1629. 12mo.

  STC 7442.

  _BM; NYP, Folg, Illinois, Hunt._


  232 Eccles (Jno.) Collection of Songs for 1.
      2 & 3 Voices &c[.]

      [Fol.      ----                  21]

John Eccles (d. 1735). A collection of songs for one two and three
voices together with such symphonys for violins or flutes as were by the
author design’d for any of them. London, for J. Walsh, [1704]. fol.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Folg._


  233 Euremond (Monsr. de St.) Oeuvres
      meslees 3 Tom _Grd. Papr._
      apud Tonson

      [4to.      London 1705.          17]

Charles de Marguetel de Saint-Denis, Seigneur de Saint-Évremond
(1610-1703). Oeuvres meslées. . . . L. P. A Londres, chez Jacob Tonson,
1705. 3 tom. [2 tom. in 3]. 4to.

  _BM; Folg._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1146 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  234 Englishman, being ye Sequel of ye Guardian
      _Large Papr._

      [8vo.      Lond.1714.            28]

Sir Richard Steele (1672-1729). London, by Sam. Buckley, 1714. 8vo.

  _BM; NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition (not mentioned as Large Paper) was item No. 620
of the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  235 Etherege’s (Sir Geo.) Plays & Poems

      [8vo.      Ib.1704.              20]

Sir George Etherege (1635?-1691). The works of Sir George Etherege:
containing his plays and poems. London, for H. H. and sold by J. Tonson
and T. Bennet, 1704. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  236 Eustachii Summa Philosophiæ

      [8vo.      Cantabr 1640.          7]

Eustacius, a Sancto Paulo. Summa philosophiæ quadripartita. Cantabrigiæ,
ex officinâ Rogeri Danielis, 1640. 8vo.

  STC 10578.

  _BM; Harv, Yale, Chicago._

Congreve’s copy (in the Yale Library) bears this note on the front
inside cover: “Gulielmus Congreve est verus Possessor hajus Libri ex
Dono Henrici Luther.” Apparently in the same handwriting are the dates
1682 and 1683 on the margin of the Preface, and the signature “W:
Congreve” on page iii. Congreve’s signature appears at least four other
times in the book. This book was bought by the Yale Library in 1942 from
C. A. Stonehill, Ltd., who had the book in stock as early as 1937, stock
No. 482, from some source that cannot now be traced.


  237 Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum

      [8vo.      Franc.1624.            6]

Ortwinus Gratius (1491-1542). Epistolarum obscurorum virorum, ad Dn.
M. Ortwinum Gratium Volumina II. Francofurti ad Moenum, 1624. 8vo.

  _BM._


  238 Egyptian History [Prodigies of Egypt]

      [8vo.      Lond.1672.             3]

Murtadā ibn al-Khafīf. The Egyptian history, treating of the pyramids,
the inundation of the Nile, and other prodigies of Egypt, according to
the opinions and traditions of the Arabians. Written originally in the
Arabian tongue by Murtadi, the son of Gaphiphus. Rendered into French by
Monsieur Vattier, . . . and done into English by J. Davies, of Kidwelly.
London, by R: B. for W. Battersby (or Thomas Basset), 1672. 8vo.

  Wing M3127-3128.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  239 Elemens de L’Histoire p Vallemont 2 Tom.

      [12mo.     Paris 1699.           11]

See No. 637.


  240 L’Ecole parfaite des Officiers de Bouche

      [12        Par.1716            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

L’escole parfaite des officiers de bouche, contenant, Le vray
maistre-d’hostel. Le grand escuyer-trenchant. Le sommelier royal. Le
confiturier royal. Le cuisinier royal. Et le patissier royal. Seconde
édition . . . corrigée. Paris, 1666. 12mo.

  _BM._

The British Museum has also the seventh edition, Paris, 1715. A copy of
a 1716 edition has not been found.


  241 Fabri (Tanaq) Epistolæ

      [4to.      Salmuri 1674.         22]

Tannequi Lefèbvre (1615-1672). Tanaquilli Fabri epistolæ. Pars prima.
Editio altera priori emendatior. Salmurii, sumptibus Isaaci Desbordes &
Joannis Lesnerii, 1674. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Newberry._


  242 Fontenelle (Mr. de) Histoire des Oracles

      [12mo.     Par.1698.             25]

Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle (1657-1757). Histoire des oracles.
A Paris, chez Michel Brunet, 1698. 12mo.

  _BM; Gardner Sage (New Brunswick, N. J.)._


  243 ---- Entretiens sur la Pluralitè
      des Mondes

      [12mo.     Ib.1698.              25]

Quatrième édition. A Paris, chez Michel Brunet, 1698. 12mo.

  _BM._


  244 ---- Nouveaux Dialogues des
      Morts 2 Tom. 5. Edit[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1700               25]

Cinquième edition. A Paris, chez Michel Brunet, 1700. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._


  245 ---- Jugement de Pluton, sur les
      2 Parties des Dialogues des
      Morts

      [12mo.     Ib.1684.              25]

A Paris, chez C. Blageart, 1684. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._


  246 ---- Poesies Pastorales

      [12mo.     Ib.1698.              25]

Poesies pastorales. Avec un traité sur la nature de l’églogue, & une
digression sur les anciens & les modernes. A Paris, chez Michel Brunet,
1698. 12mo.

  _BM._


  247 ---- Lettres Galantes de Monsieur
      le Chevalier D’Her * * *

      [12mo.     Ib.1699.              25]

Troisiéme edition. A Paris, chez Michel Brunet, 1599 [for 1699]. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv._


  248 ----’s Dialogues of ye Dead
      Translated

      [8vo.      London 1708            8]

Fontenelle’s Dialogues of the dead, in three parts. . . . Translated
from the French [by John Hughes]. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1708. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Newberry, Clark._


  249 ----’s Plurality of Worlds, Translated
      by Mr Glanvil

      [12mo.     Ib.1702.               8]

A plurality of worlds. Written in French by the author of the Dialogues
of the dead. Translated into English by Mr. Glanvill. London, printed
for R. W. and sold by Tho. Osbourne, 1702. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Library Company of Philadelphia, Clark._


  250 Fontaine (Mr. de la) Fables Choises
      4 Tom. en 2 Vol[.]

      [8vo.      Anvers 1699           25]

Jean de la Fontaine (1621-1695). Fables choisies. Mises en vers.
A Anvers, chez la veuve de Barthelemy Foppens, 1699. 4 parts in 2 vol.
8vo.

  _Bodleian._


  251 Femmes des XII. Cesars p Mr. de
      Servies

      [12mo.     Paris 1718.           11]

Jacques Roergas de Serviez (1679-1727). Les femmes des douze cesars,
contenant la vie & les intrigues secretes des imperatrices & femmes des
premiers empereurs romains; où l’on voit les traits les plus
interessants de l’histoire romaine. Tirée des anciens auteurs grecs &
latins, avec des notes historique & critiques. A Paris, chez De Launay,
1718. 12mo.

  _BM; NYP, Illinois._


  252 Fuller’s (Tho.) Andronicus, or the
      unfortunate Politician

      [12mo      Lond.1646.             6]

Thomas Fuller (1608-1661). Andronicus, or The unfortunate politician.
Shewing sin; slowly punished. Right; surely rescued. London, by
W. Wilson, for John Williams, 1646. 8vo.

  Wing does not list a 1646 edition in 12mo, but lists three editions of
that year in 8vo: Wing F2403--_Bodleian; Union Theological Sem., Clark_;
Wing F2405--_BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry_; Wing F2406--_Bodleian; Yale,
Hunt_.


  253 Filli di Sciro del _Conte Guidubaldo_

      [24to.     Amst.1678              5]

Guido Ubaldo Bonarelli della Rovere (1563-1608). Filli di Sciro, favola
pastorale. In Amsterdam, nella stamperia del S. D. Elsevier, 1678. 32mo.

  _Bodleian._


  254 L. Florus - - _Foliis deauratis_. apd. Tonson

      [12mo      Lond.1715             24]

Lucius Annæus Florus (2d century after Christ). Cui subjungitur Lucii
Ampelii liber memorialis. Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis
Watts, 1715. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Alma College (Michigan)._


  255 Figgs Poems

      [12mo.     ---                   20]

A collection of poems on several occasions. . . . To which is added a
pastoral, entitled, The fond shepherdess. Dedicated to Mr. Congreve. By
Mrs. Sarah Fyge Egerton. London, to be sold by the booksellers, 1706.
8vo.

  _Folg, Texas, Clark._

For the 1710(?) edition of this work see No. 461.


  256 Galliard’s VI. Eng. Cantata’s after
      ye Italian Manner

      [Fol.      ----                  21]

Johann Ernest Galliard (1687?-1749). Six English cantatas after the
Italian manner. London, for J. Walsh, [1716]. fol. [Words by Congreve
and others.]

  _BM; Harv._


  257 Gay’s (Jno.) Poems on Sevl. Occasions
      _Large Papr._

      [4to.      Lond.1720.             2]

John Gay (1685-1732). Poems on several occasions. London, for Jacob
Tonson and Bernard Lintot, 1720. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

Three copies of this edition were in the Leeds Sale, 1930, as Nos. 257,
258, 259. Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers.


  258 ---- Trivia, or ye Art of Walking
      London Streets. _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.___                28]

London, for Bernard Lintot, [no date. 1716?]. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 256 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  259 ---- Fables

      [4to       Ib.1727             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

London, for J. Tonson and J. Watts, 1727. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Texas._


  260 Garth’s (Sam.) Dispensary, a Poem. _L. Papr._

      [8vo.      Ib.1700.              19]

Sir Samuel Garth (1661-1719). Fourth edition. London, printed and sold
by John Nutt, 1700. 8vo.

  Wing G276.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton._


  261 ---- Ditto 7th Edit[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1714               20]

The seventh edition. With several descriptions and episodes never before
printed. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1714. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Michigan, Clark._


  262 Guzman, ye Spanish Rogue, his Life

      [Fol.      Oxon.1630.             2]

Mateo Alemán (c. 1547-1614?). The rogue; or, The life of Guzman de
Alfarache. [Translated into English by James Mabbe.] Oxford, by William
Turner, for Robert Allot, 1630. fol.

  STC 290.

  _BM; Harv, Yale, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy with “Will: Congreve” on the title page was item No. 9 in the
Leeds Sale, 1930, and is now in the Yale Library.


  263 Gazæ (Theod.) Gram. Institutionis Liber Primus

      [4to.      Antv.1516             14]

Theodorus Gaza (1398-1478). Grammaticæ institutionis liber primus, sic
translatus per Erasmum Roterodamum. Basileae apud Joannem Frobenium,
1516. 4to. [Imprint at the back. The Preface ends with “Antuerpiæ. Anno
MDXVI.”]

  _BM, Bibl. de l’Arsenal (Paris); Iowa._


  264 et Luciani Dialogi 70. Gr. Lat: à Schotto

      [4to.      Argent 1515           14]

Bracketed with No. 263 in the manuscript.

Lucian of Samosata (b. _c._ A.D. 120). Luciani Samosatensis deorum
dialogi numero. 70. una cum interpretatione e regione latina. Argentine,
Johannes Schottus, 1515. 4to.

  _BM; Yale._


  265 Grammatices Græcæ Rudimenta, in Usum
      _Scholæ Westmon_.

      [8vo.      Lond.1693.             7]

Richard Busby (1606-1695). Græcæ grammatices rudimenta. In usum scholæ
regiæ Westmonasteriensis. Londini, ex officinâ Eliz. Redmayne. 1693.
8vo.

  Wing B6224.

  _Bodleian; Washington and Lee._


  266 Godfrey of Bulloigne, done into Eng. Verse
      by Edw. Fairfax

      [8vo       Ib.1687.              19]

Godfrey of Bulloigne: or The recovery of Jerusalem. Done into English
heroical verse, by Edward Fairfax. London, by J. M. for H. Herringman,
and are to be sold by Jos. Knight, and F. Saunders, 1687. 8vo.

Congreve’s copy could have belonged to any of the three issues of 1687:
Wing T174 (By J. M. for H. Herringman)--_BM; Harv, LC, Cincinnati_; Wing
T174A (By J. M. for G. Wells and A. Swalle)--_Harv, Chicago_; Wing T174B
(By J. M. for Ric. Chiswell, Ric. Bentley, Tho. Sawbridge, and Geo.
Wells)--_NYP, Illinois_.


  267 Il Goffredo, overo Gierusalemme Liberata,
      del _Tasso_. 2 Tom[.]

      [24to.     Amsterd 1678.          5]

Torquato Tasso (1544-1595). Il Goffredo, overo Gierusalemme liberata.
. . . Con l’allegoria universale. Amsterdam, D. Elsevier, 1678. 2 tom.
16mo.

  _BM._


  268 Gerardo, the unfortunate Spaniard

      [8vo.      Lond.1653.            20]

Gonsalo de Céspedes y Meneses (1585?-1638). Gerardo the unfortunate
Spaniard. London, by William Bentley, and are to be sold by William
Shears, 1653. 8vo.

  Wing C1783.

  _BM; Newberry._

  269 ye Grove, a Collection of Orig. Poems.
      Translations &c[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1721.              20]

See No. 157.


  270 Gherardi Theatre Italien 6 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Paris 1700.           25]

Evaristo Gherardi (d. 1700). Le theatre italien de Gherardi, ou, Le
recueil general de toutes les comedies & scenes françoises jouées par
les comediens italiens du roy, pendant tout le temps qu’ils ont été au
service. A Paris, chez Jean-Babt. Cusson et Pierre Witte, 1700. 6 tom.
12mo.

  _BN; Columbia, Iowa._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1219 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.

  271 le Gage Touchè, Histoires Galantes

      [....      ib.1711.              26]

Eustache Lenoble, Baron de Saint-Georges et de Tennelière (1643-1711).

A copy of a 1711 edition has not been found. Other editions may be
consulted at _NYP_ (1700), _BM_ (1718), _BN_ (1722), _Harv_ (1724), and
_LC_ (1724).


  272 Gassendi Philosophie Abregè p Bernier
      7 Tom 6 voll[.]

      [12mo.     Lyon 1684.            12]

Pierre Gassend (1592-1655). Abregé de la philosophie . . . par
F. Bernier. Seconde édition. A Lyon, chez Anisson, Pousel, & Rigaud,
1684. 7 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Michigan._

  273 le Guide des Londres dedié aux Voyageurs
      Etrangers

      [12mo.     ----                   6]

[François Colsoni (fl. 1693).] Le guide de Londres dedié aux voyageurs
etrangers. . . . Troisiéme edition. A Londres, imprimé pour le German
Bookseller Shop near Somerset-house in the Strand, 1710. Small 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._

Congreve’s title follows that of the “third” edition (1710) rather than
that of earlier editions in 1693 and 1697.


  274 Gustave Vasa, Histoire de Suede

      [12mo.     Par.1697.             26]

[Charlotte-Rose de Caumont de la Force (d. 1724.).] Gustave Vasa,
histoire de Suede. A Paris, chez Simon Benard, 1698-7. 12mo. 2 tom.
12mo.

The second volume is dated 1697.

  _BN._


  275 Germaine de Foix, Reine d’Espagne

      [12mo.     Amst.1700             26]

Entry crossed through but legible.

Nicholas Baudot de Juilly (1678-1759). Germaine de Foix, reine
d’Espagne. Nouvelle historique. A Amsterdam, chez Hans Henry, MDCCC [for
1700]. 12mo.

  _Bibl. de l’Arsenal (Paris)._


  276 Gulliver see Trauels

      [....      ....                  29]

    Entry by the second hand.

See No. 612.


  277 Gentelmans Jockey

      [8vo.      Lond:1717              4]

    Entry by the second hand.

The gentleman’s jockey, and approved farrier; instructing in the
natures, causes, and cures of all diseases incident to horses. London,
for Henry Twyford and Nath. Brook, 1671. 8vo.

  Wing lists eight editions, 1671-1687. _BM_ has the first and the
eighth. _Harv_ has the seventh, 1683. A copy of a 1717 edition has not
been found.


  278 Gellius (Aulus) Var. not. Gronovii

      [4to       Lug.B.              1706]

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 5.


  279 High Treason see Collection of Statutes &c[.]

      [----      ....                   6]

See No. 106.


  280 Howel’s French & Eng Dictionary. See Cotgrave

      [----      ....                   9]

See No. 85.


  281 Hobbes’s (Tho) Leviathan, or Commonwealth
      Ecclesiastical & Civil

      [Fol.      London 1651.           9]

Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679). Leviathan, or The matter, forme, & power of a
common-wealth ecclesiasticall and civill. London, Andrew Crooke (or
Ckooke), 1651. fol.

Three folio editions have 1651 on the title page: Wing H2246--_BM; Harv,
NYP, Newberry, Hunt_; Wing H2247--_Bodleian; Harv, Folg, LC, Illinois_;
Wing H2248--_BM; Harv, Princeton, Chicago_.

Two copies of the 1651 folio, both listed as the first edition, appeared
as item Nos. 303 and 304 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  282 ---- Translation of Thucydides
      History of ye Poloponnesian
      War

      [Fol.      Ib.1634.               9]

Eight bookes of the Peloponnesian warre written by Thucydides the sonne
of Olorus. Interpreted . . . by Thomas Hobbes. London, for Richard (or
H.) Mynne, 1634. fol.

  STC 24059.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Illinois, Hunt._


  283 Harmonia Sacra, or Divine Hymns
      & Dialogues Composed by
      ye best Masters. 2 Parts

      [Fol.      Ib.1703.              21]

Henry Playford (1657-1706?). Harmonia sacra: or, Divine hymns and
dialogues; with a through-bass for the theorbolute, bass viol,
harpsicord, or organ. Composed by the best masters of the last and
present age; the words by several learned and pious persons. London, by
William Pearson, for Henry Playford, 1703. fol. (Book II: by Edward
Jones, for Henry Playford.)

  _BM; Harv, Illinois._

The first part appeared in 1688 and again in 1703. The second part
appeared in 1693. Since Congreve had two parts, he probably had the 1703
edition of the first part and the first edition of the second part. An
edition in two volumes described as “1703-1693” was item No. 455 in the
Leeds Sale, 1930.


  284 Hales (Jno) Golden Remains 3d. Edit.

      [8vo.      Ib.1688               14]

John Hales (1584-1656). Golden remains, of the ever memorable Mr. John
Hales, of Eaton-Colledge, &c. The third impression. With additions from
the authors own copy, viz. sermons and miscellanies. Also letters and
expresses concerning the synod of Dort. From an authentick hand. London,
by T. B. for George Pawlet, 1688. 8vo.

  Wing H272.

  _BM; Harv, Chicago, Clark._


  285 Herodote Histoires mises en François
      p DuRyer. Grd. Papr[.]

      [Fol.      Paris 1658            16]

Herodotus (5th Century B.C.). Les histoires d’Herodote. Mises en
françois par P. Du Ryer. A Paris, chez Augustin Courbé, 1658. fol.

  _BN; Harv, Lehigh (Pennsylvania)._


  286 Herodotus’s History Translated from the
      Greek by Is. Littlebury. 2 Vol[.]

      [8vo.      Lond.1720             13]

The history of Herodotus. Translated from the Greek. By Isaac
Littlebury, London, for A. Bell, etc., 1720. 2 vol. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Harv. LC._


  287 Herodoti Historiarum Libri IX

      [8vo.      Francof.1584           7]

Herodoti Halicarnassei historiæ libri IX: et de vita Homeri.
Francofurti, apud hæredes Andreæ Wecheli, 1584. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Harv, Vassar, Cincinnati, Hunt._


  288 Hippocrate Oeuvres avec des
      Remarques. 2 Tom[.]

      [8vo.      Paris 1697.            4]

Les oeuvres d’Hippocrate traduites en François, avec des remarques [by
A. Dacier]. A Paris, par la Compagnie des Libraires (or A. Lambin),
1697. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, U.S. Surgeon General’s Office._

A copy of this edition, described as 12mo, was listed under No. 1182 in
the Hornby Castle Sale, 1930.


  289 Homeri quæ extant Omnia Gr. Lat.
      cum Comment. _Spondani_

      [Fol.      Basil 1606.            9]

Homeri quae extant omnia. . . . Cum Latina versione . . . Jo. Spondani
. . . commentariis. Basileæ, per Sebastianum Henricpetri, 1606. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Morgan, Northwestern, Hunt._

The copy with “W. Congreve” on the title page is now in the Morgan
Library in New York.


  290 ---- Ilias et Odyssea, et
      in easdem Scholia Veterum.
      Operâ et Studio _Jos. Barnes_
      2 Vol[.]

      [4to.      Cantabr.1711.         22]

Homeri Ilias & Odyssea, et in easdem scholia, sive interpretatio,
veterum. . . . Opera, studio, & impensis, Josuæ Barnes. Cantabrigiæ,
apud Cornelium Crownfield, 1711. 2 vol. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry._


  291 ---- Ilias Græcè

      [8vo.      Lond 1591.             7]

Homeri Ilias, id est, de rebus ad Troiam gestis. Londini, excudebat
Georgius Bishop, 1591. 8vo.

  STC 13629.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Folg, Hunt._


  292 ---- Translated by Mr. Chapman

      [Fol.      ----                  21]

The whole works of Homer. . . . Translated . . . by Geo: Chapman.
London, for Nathaniell Butter, [1616]. fol.

  STC 13624.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 309 in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


  293 Hardoüin Apologie d’Homere

      [12mo.     Par.1716.             18]

Jean Hardouin (1646-1729). Apologie d’Homère, où l’on explique le
véritable dessein de son Iliade, et sa theomythologie. A Paris, aux
dépens de Rigaud, 1716. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, LC._

  294 l’Histoire de Charles V. Roi de France
      p L’Abbè de Choisy

      [4to.      Ib.1689.              13]

François Timoléon de Choisy (1644-1724). Histoire de Charles Cinquième
roi de France. A Paris, chez Antoine Dezallier, 1689. 4to.

  _BM; Augustana College._


  295 ---- Generale des Larrons

      [8vo.      Rov.1649.              3]

François de Calvi. Histoire generale des larrons. A Rouen, chez Robert
Daré, 1649. 8vo.

  _Harv._


  296 ---- Comique de Francion 2 Tom.

      [12mo.     Rot.1668.             26]

Charles Sorel, Sieur de Souvigny (_c._ 1597-1674). La vraie histoire
comique de Francion. Leyde, Hackes, 1668. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _National Library (Florence)._

A copy of a Rotterdam edition of 1668 has not been found.


  297 ---- de la Cour d’Espagne

      [12mo.     Haye.1692.            26]

Marie Catherine Jumelle de Berneville, Comtesse d’Aulnoy (d. 1705).
Histoire nouvelle de la cour d’Espagne. A La Haye, chez Jean Alberts,
1692 12mo.

  _Royal Library (The Hague); Dartmouth College._


  298 ---- de Gil Blas 3 Tom.

      [12mo.     Amst.1715.            26]

Alain René Le Sage (1668-1747). Histoire de Gil Blas de Santillane. Par
Monsieur Le Sage. Enrichie de figures. A Amsterdam, chez J. Oosterwyk,
Steenhouwer & Uytwerf, 1715. 2 tom. 12mo. (A third volume was published
by Herman Uytwerf in 1725, and a fourth appeared in 1735 after
Congreve’s death.)

  _Amsterdam._


  299 ---- de la Vie du Pape Sixte V.
      de l’Italien de Greg. Leti. 2 Tom.

      [12mo      Anvers 1704           11]

Gregorio Leti (1630-1701). L’histoire de la vie du Pape Sixte Cinquiéme
Traduite de l’Italien de Gregorio Leti. A Anvers, chez la veuve de
Barthelemy Foppens, 1704. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _Bibl. de l’Arsenal (Paris)._


  300 ---- du Card. Ximenès p Mess:
      Flechier, Evêque de Nismes.
      2 Tom[.]

      [12        Amsterd 1700          11]

Valentin Esprit Fléchier, successively Bishop of Lavaur, and of Nîmes
(1632-1710). Histoire du Cardinal Ximenés. A Amsterdam, chez la veuve de
Bartholemy Foppens, 1700. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Pennsylvania, LC._


  301 ---- des Avanturiers Boucaniers qui se sont
      signalez dans les Indes. 2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Paris 1688.            3]

Alexandre Olivier Exquemelin (1645?-1707). A Paris, chez Jacques Le
Febvre, 1688. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BN; NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  302 ---- de l’Invasion de l’Espagne
      p les Maures [_Relation Galante_]

      [12mo.     Haye 1699             11]

Nicholas Baudot de Juilly (1678-1759). Relation historique et galante,
de l’invasion de l’Espagne par les Maures. A La Haye, chez Adrian
Moetjens, 1699. 4 tom. 12mo.

  _Bodleian._


  303 ---- de Marguerite de Valois,
      Reine de Navarre Tom. 4

      [12mo.     Paris.1720.           23]

[Mlle. Charlotte-Rose de Caumont de la Force (d. 1724).] Histoire de
Marguerite de Valois, reine de Navarre, soeur de François I. A Paris,
chez François Fournier, 1720. 4 tom. 12mo.

  _BN; Princeton._


  304 ---- de Cyrus Traduite du Grec
      de Xenophon p Mr Charpentier

      [8vo.      Haye 1717.            33]

See No. 159.


  305 ---- des Plantes vide Chomel.

      [--        ---                    4]

See No. 127.


  306 History off trayale by willes. see Voyage
    Entry by the second hand.

See No. 646.


  307 History off Gilblas English 3 voll[.]

      [12        Lon.1725.              6]

    Entry by the second hand.

Alain René Le Sage (1668-1747). The history and adventures of Gil Blas
of Santillane. In three volumes. The second edition. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1725 12mo.

  _Bodleian; Harv._


  308 History of Polexander. Engd. by Wm. Browne

      [Fol.      London 1648.           2]

Marin LeRoy, sieur de Gomberville (1600?-1674). The history of
Polexander: in five bookes. Done into English by William Browne. London,
by Tho. Harper, for Thomas Walkey, 1648. fol.

  Wing G1026.

  _Bodleian; Virginia, Newberry._


  309 ---- of Infamous Imposters, that have
      Usurp’d ye Titles of Kings &c[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1683                8]

Jean Baptiste de Rocoles (1620?-1696). The history of infamous
impostors. Or, The lives & actions of several notorious counterfeits,
who from the most abject, and meanest of the people, have usurped the
titles of emperours, kings, and princes . . . done into English. London,
for William Cademan, 1683. 8vo.

  Wing R1766.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  310 ---- Secret, of Europe

      [8vo.      Ib.1712.               8]

John Oldmixon (1673-1742). The secret history of Europe. . . . The whole
collected from authentick memoirs, as well manuscript as printed.
London, printed for the booksellers of London and Westminster, 1712.
8vo.

  _BM; NYP, Cleveland Public, Texas._


  311 ---- Secret, of K. Cha. 2d. & K.
      James 2d.

      [12mo.     Ib.1690.               6]

The secret history of the reigns of K. Charles II. and K. James II.
Printed in the year 1600. [Place not given.] 12mo.

  Wing S2347.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Peabody Institute, Newberry, Hunt._


  312 ---- of Polybius 2 Vols[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1693.              13]

See No. 472.


  313 History off the Otaman Empire by
      Sr: P: Ricaut

      [8vo.      Lon:1682.              3]

    Entry by the second hand.

Sir Paul Rycaut (1628-1700). The history of the present state of the
Ottoman empire. . . . The fifth edition. London, by T. N. for Joanna
Brome, 1682. 8vo.

  Wing R2403.

  _BM; Folg, Illinois, Washington State College._

A copy of another issue of the same year, “by T. N. for John Starkey,”
(Wing R2404), may be consulted at _Yale_.


  314 Histoire du Theatre Italien de Riccoboni

      [8vo       Lond.               ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Louis Riccoboni (1674-1753). Histoire du theatre Italien depuis la
decadence de la comedie latine; avec un catalogue des tragedies et
comedies Italiennes imprimées depuis l’an 1500, jusqu’â l’an 1600. Et
une dissertation sur la tragedie moderne. Paris, chez H. D. Chaubert
[1727]. 8vo.

  _BM; Boston Public, Duke, Miami (Ohio), Hunt._

This book is written partly in French and partly in Italian. In another
work on the theatre (translated as _An historical and critical account
of the theatre in Europe_, London, 1744, p. 175) Riccoboni makes this
comment on Congreve: “Amongst the Crowd of _English_ Poets, Mr.
_Congreve_ is most esteemed for Comedy. He was perfectly acquainted with
Nature; and was living in 1727, when I was in _London_; I conversed with
him more than once, and found in him Taste joined with great Learning.
It is rare to find many Dramatic Poets of his Stamp.”


  315 Horace, Tarteron, 2 tom.

      [8{vo}.     Amsterdam 1710         3]

    Entry by the second hand.

Les œuvres d’Horace, traduites en françois par le P. Tarteron.
A Amsterdam, chez Pierre de Coup, 1710. 2 tom. 12mo. [With the Latin
text.]

  _BM; Columbia, Princeton._


  316 L’Honnéte Homme, et le Scelerat

      [12mo.     Bruss.1710            26]

L’honnête homme et le scelerat. Scavoir, si pour parvenir dans le monde,
il faut être honnête homme ou scelerat. Par Monsieur J. D. D. C. Suivant
la copie de Paris. A Brusselles, chez Louis de Wainne, 1710. 12mo.

  _Bibl. de l’Arsenal (Paris)._


  317 Q. Horatii Opera cum Variis Lectionibus.
      _Ch. Majori_

      [4to.      Cantabr.1699          17]

Cantabrigiæ, impensis Jacobi Tonson. Londini, 1699. 4to.

  Wing H2764.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry._


  318 ---- in Usum Delphini
      cum Notis Desprez

      [8vo.      Lond.1694.             7]

Q. Horatii Flacci Opera . . . illustravit Ludovicus Desprez . . . in
usum serenissimi Delphini. Londini, impensis R Clavel, H. Mortlock,
S. Smith & B. Walford, 1694. 8vo.

  Wing H2763.

  _BM; Boston Athenaeum, Pomona College._


  319 ---- Poemata cum Notis Rodellii
      ad Usum Delphini

      [8vo.      Ib.1690.               7]

Q. Horatii Flacci poemata interpretatione et notis illustravit Petrus
Rodellius . . . ad usum Delphini [“for the use of the Dauphin,” son of
Louis XIV of France]. Londini, impensis Abelis Swalle, 1690. 8vo

  Wing H2780.

  _BM; Newberry._


  320 ---- Opera. Foliis deauratis. apd.
      J. Tonson

      [12mo.     Ib.1715.              24]

Quinti Horatii Flacci opera. Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, &
Johannis Watts, 1715. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, Library Company of Philadelphia, Hunt._


  321 ---- Eadem cum _Rutgersii_
      Lectionibus 2 Vol.

      [12mo.     Traject.1699.         24]

Q. Horatii Flaccus. Accedunt J. Rutgersii lectiones. Traject[i]
Batav[orum], apud Franciscum Halman, Guiljelmum van de Water, 1699.
12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Chicago._


  322 ---- Eadem ex Recensione
      _Heinsiana_

      [24to.     Amstel.1676            5]

Q. Horatius Flaccus. Daniel Heinsius ex emendatissimis editionibus
expressit, & repræsentavit. Amstelodami, apud Danielem Elzevirium, 1676.
16mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  323 ---- Odæ in _Locos Communes_
      digestæ à Jos. Langio

      [12mo.     Lugd.1604.             5]

Quincti Horatii Flacci . . . Odæ in locos communes ad lyricæ poëseos
studiosorum utilitatem digestæ. Studio & operâ Josephi Langii. Hanoviæ,
typis Wechelianis, apud Claudium Marnium & heredes Joannis Aubrii, 1604
8vo.

  _BM._

A copy of a Lugduni, 1604, edition has not been found.


  324 Histoire De L’Exile De Ciceron

      [12        paris.                30]

    Entry by the second hand.

Jacques Morabin (1687-1762). Histoire de l’exil de Ciceron. A Paris,
chez Lambert Coffin, 1725. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale (chez Andre Cailleau, 1726)._


  325 Histoire De France En brege
      Par. P: Daniel 9 Vol - Vid - R. -

      [....      ....                  30]

    Entry by the second hand.

See No. 528.


  326 Iamblichi de mysteriis Liber Gr. Lat. p
      Tho. Gale

      [Fol.      Oxon.1678.             9]

Jamblichus, of Chalcis (_c._ A.D. 250-_c._ 325). Jamblichi . . . de
mysteriis liber. . . . Græce nunc primum edidit, Latine vertit, et notas
adjecit. Gr. & Lat. Oxonii, e theatro Sheldoniano, 1678. fol.

  Wing I26.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Northwestern._


  327 Jeffrey of Monmouth’s British History
      Engd. by _Aaron Thompson_

      [8vo.      Lond.1718.            13]

Geoffrey of Monmouth (1100?-1154). The British history, translated into
English from the Latin . . . by Aaron Thompson. London, for J. Bowyer,
H. Clements, and W. and J. Innys, 1718. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Hunt._


  328 Jacob’s (Giles) Treatise of Laws

      [8vo.      Ib.1721.              32]

Giles Jacob (1686-1744). A treatise of laws: or, A general introduction
to the common, civil, and canon law. London, for T. Woodward, and
J. Peele, 1721. 8vo.

  _Lincoln’s Inn (London); Harv, LC._


  329 ---- Students Companion, or the
      Reason of ye Laws of Engld.

      [8vo.      Ib.1725.              32]

The student’s companion: or, The reason of the laws of England.
[London,] in the Savoy, by E. and R. Nutt, and R. Gosling (assigns of
Edward Sayer), for T. Corbett, 1725. 8vo.

  _Inner Temple (London); Harv, LC._


  330 Ino et Melicerte, Trag. p Mr de la
      Grange

      [12mo.     Paris 1713.           30]

François Joseph de La Grange-Chancel (1667-1758). Ino et Mélicerte,
tragédie. A Paris, chez Pierre Ribou, 1713. 12mo.

  _BN._


  331 Illustres Francoişes, Histoires veritables
      2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Haye 1713.            26]

Robert Challes (1659-_c._ 1720). Les illustres Françoises, histoires
veritables. Où l’on trouve, dan des caracteres tres-particuliers & fort
differens, un grand nombre d’exemples rares & extraordinares des belles
manieres, de la politesse. A La Haye, Hondt, 1713. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _National Library (Florence)._


  332 Justiniani (Imp.) Institutiones. Curâ Vinnii

      [12mo.     Amst.1663.             5]

Justinianus I (483-565). D. Justiniani, sacratissimi principis,
institutionum . . . cura & studio Arnoldi Vinnii. Amstelædami, ex
officina Elzeviriana, 1663. 12mo.

  _Lincoln’s Inn (London); Harv, Minnesota._


  333 Ignoramus, Comœdia coram Rege Jac. 1mo.

      [12mo.     Lond.1668              5]

G. Ruggle (1575-1622). Ignoramus. Comœdia [in five acts and in prose]
coram Regie Jacobo et totius Angliæ magnatibus per Academicos
Cantabrigienses habita. Editio quarta. Londini, ex officina J. R., 1668.
12mo.

  Wing R2215.

  _BM; Yale, Folg._


  334 Juvenalis et Persius Interpr. et Notis
      Lud. Pratei ad Usum Delph[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1691.               7]

D. Junii Juvenalis et A. Persii Flacci Satyræ. Interpretatione ac notis
illustravit Ludovicus Prateus. . . . In usum serenissimi Delphini.
Londini, impensis Tho. Dring, & Abel Swalle, 1691. 8vo.

  Wing J1285.

  _BM; Harv._


  335 ---- Idem, sine Notis.apd.Tonson
      _Foliis deauratis_

      [12mo.     Ib.1716.              24]

Decii Junii Juvenalis et Auli Persii Flacci Satyræ. Londini, ex officinâ
Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1716. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Illinois._


  336 Justini Historiarum ex Trogo Pomp.
      Libri XLIV. apd. Tonson
      _Foliis deauratis_

      [12mo.     Ib.1713.              24]

Marcus Junianus Justinus. Justini Historiarum ex Trogo Pompeio libri
XLIV. Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1713. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv._


  337 Juvenal Hollady

      [Fol:      Ox.1673             ....]

    Entry by the second hand.

Barten Holyday (1593-1661). Decimus Junius Juvenalis, and Aulus Persius
Flaccus, translated and illustrated, as well with sculpture as notes.
Oxford, by W. Downing, for F. Oxlad, Senior, J. Adams, and F. Oxlad,
Junior, 1673. fol.

  Wing J1276.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  338 Johnsons (Ben) Works V. Ben

      [Fol.      ....                ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

See Nos. 44, 45.


  339 Kempii (Jo.) Monumenta Vetustatis

      [8vo.      Lond.1720              6]

John Kemp (1665-1717). Monumenta vetustatis Kempiana, ex vetustis
scriptoribus illustrata, eosque vicissim illustrantia. [Ed. by
R. Ainworth and J. Ward.] Londini, typis Danielis Bridge. Veneunt à
Paulo Vaillant; G. & J. Innys; & J. Osborn, 1720. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._


  340 Kennett’s (Basil) Lives of ye Ancient
      Grecian Poets

      [8vo.      Ib.1697.              11]

Basil Kennett (1674-1715). The lives and characters of the ancient
Grecian poets. London, for Abel Swall, 1697. 8vo.

  Wing K297.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Cincinnati, Newberry, Clark._


  341 ---- Antiquities of Rome

      [8vo.      Ib.1696.              11]

Romæ antiquæ notitia: or, The antiquities of Rome. In two parts.
I. A short history of the rise, progress, and decay of the commonwealth.
II. A description of the city. An account of the religion, civil
government, and art of war; with the remarkable customs and ceremonies,
public and private. London, A. Swall and T. Child, 1696. 8vo.

  Wing K298.

  _BM; Princeton, Newberry, Clark._


  342 Killigrew’s (Tho) 5 Plays

      [Fol.      Ib.1664.               9]

Thomas Killigrew, the Elder (1612-1683). Comedies, and tragedies.
London, for Henry Herringman, 1664. fol.

  Wing K450.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 341 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  343 Lucan’s Pharsalia Translated into
      Eng. Verse by N. Rowe
      Large Paper

      [Fol.      Lond.1718.            16]

Marcus Annæus Lucanus (A.D. 39-65). Lucan’s Pharsalia. Translated into
English verse by Nicholas Rowe, Esq. London, J. Tonson, 1718. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1140 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930. Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers.


  344 Lucanus de Bello Civili cum Variorum
      Notis, accurante Schrevelio

      [8vo.      Lugd Bat 1669          7]

M. Annæus Lucanus de bello civili . . . notis integris & variorum
selectiss. Accurante Corn. Schrevelio. Lugd[uni] Batav[orum] et
Roterod[ami], ex officina Hackiana, 1669. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Cincinnati, Michigan._


  345 Lucain Pharsale de Mr. de Brebeuf

      [12mo.     Haye 1700.            24]

Georges de Brébeuf (1617?-1661). La Pharsale de Lucain . . . en vers
françois. La Haye, chez A. Leers, 1683. 12.

  _BM; Princeton._

A copy of a 1700 edition has not been found.


  346 Lucan’s Pharsalia Eng. by Tho. May

      [12mo.     Lond.1635              6]

Lucan’s Pharsalia: or, The civil warres of Rome, between Pompey the
Great and Julius Cæsar. The whole ten bookes, Englished by Thomas May,
Esquire. The third edition, corrected by the author. London,
A. M[athewes], sold by Will: Sheares, 1635. 8vo.

  STC 16889.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Chicago, Hunt._

Perhaps Congreve’s edition (listed as 12mo) was misjudged because it is
small for 8vo.


  347 Lloydii Dictionarium vide Diction. Historicum

      [----      ....                   9]

See No. 180.


  348 Locke’s (Jno.) Essay concerning Human
      Understanding 3d. Edit[.]

      [Fol.      Lond.1695.             9]

John Locke (1632-1704). An essay concerning humane understanding, in
four books. . . . The third edition. London, for Awnsham and John
Churchil, and Samuel Manship, 1695. fol.

  Wing L2741.

  _BM; Harv, NYP._


  349 ---- Posthumous Works

      [8vo.      Ib.1706.              33]

Posthumous works. . . . To which is added, VI. His new method of a
common-place-book, written originally in French, and now translated into
English. London, by W. B. for A. and J. Churchill, 1706. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Hunt._


  350 Lysis, ye Extravagant Shepherd, an
      Anti-Romance

      [Fol.      Ib.1654.               9]

Charles Sorel, Sieur de Souvigny (1597?-1674). The extravagant shepherd:
or, The history of the shepherd Lysis. An anti-romance; written
originally in French, and now made English. London, by T. Newcomb for
Thomas Heath, 1654. fol.

  Wing S4704.

  _Bodleian; Harv, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

For the French original see No. 54.


  351 Longinus de Sublimitate. Curâ Jac. Tollii

      [4to.      Traj.ad Rhen.1694     22]

Dionysii Longini de sublimitate commentarius, ceteraque quæ reperiri
potuere. . . . Jacobus Tollius . . . emendavit. Trajecti ad Rhenum, ex
officinâ Francisci Halma, 1694. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Newberry._


  352 Lucretii Cari de Rerum Naturâ, cum
      variis Lectionibus. _Ch. Maj._

      [4to.      Lond 1712.            17]

Titus Lucretius Carus (94?-55? B.C.). Titi Lucretii Cari De rerum natura
libri sex. . . . Accesserunt variæ lectiones. Londini, sumptibus & typis
Jacobi Tonson, 1712. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Chicago._


  353 ---- Idem cum Notis Tho. Creech.

      [8vo.      Oxon.1695.             7]

Titi Lucretii Cari de rerum natura libri sex: quibus interpretationem et
notas addidit Thomas Creech. Oxonii, e theatro Sheldoniano, impensis Ab.
Swall, & Tim. Child, 1695. 8vo.

  Wing L3445.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Chicago, California._


  354 ---- Idem cum Interpretatione Galli-
      =câ, ad postremam Giffanii Emen
      =dationem restitutus

      [8vo.      Paris 1659.            7]

Titi Lucretii Cari de rerum natura libri sex. Ad postremam Oberti
Gifanii I. C. emendationem. Lutetiæ Parisiorum, apud Guillelmum de
Luyne, 1659. 8vo.

  _BM; Pennsylvania._


  355 ---- Idem. _Foliis deauratis._ apd. Tonson

      [12mo.     Lond.1713.            24]

Titi Lucretii Cari de rerum natura libri sex. Londini, ex officinâ
Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1713. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Johns Hopkins, Reed College (Oregon)._


  356 Lucien Oeuvres de Sr. D’Ablancourt
      2 Tom[.]

      [4to.      Paris 1655            22]

Lucian of Samosata (b. _c._ A.D. 120). Lucien de la traduction de
N. Perrot, Sr. d’Ablancourt. A Paris, chez A. Courbé, 1655. 2 tom. 4to.

  _BN; Yale, LC, Iowa._


  357 ---- avec Annot. de J. _Baudoin_

      [4to.      Ib.___                14]

Les œuvres de Lucian de Samosate autheur Grec de nouveau traduites en
François . . . par J. B. [Jean Baudoin], A Paris, chez Jean Richer,
[1613]. 4to.

  _BN; LC._


  358 Lees (Nat.) Plays

      [4to.      Lond __               28]

Nathaniel Lee (1653?-1692). The works of Mr. Nathaniel Lee, in one
volume. London, for R. Bentley, 1694. 4to.

  Wing L845A.

  _Bodleian; Harv._

Another possibility: London, for Richard Bentley and S. Magnes, 1687.
4to. Wing L845--Clark.


  359 Lilly’s (Wm.) Prophecies

      [4to.      Ib.1644.               8]

William Lilly (1602-1681). England’s propheticall Merline, foretelling
to all nations of Europe until 1663 the actions depending upon the
influence of the conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter, 1642
      3. By William Lilly, student in astrologie. London, by John
Raworth, for John Partridge, 1644. 4to.

  Wing L2221.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  360 Ld Lansdown’s (Granville) Poems

      [8vo.      Ib.1712.              20]

George Granville, Baron Lansdowne (1667-1735). Poems upon several
occasions. London, for J. Tonson, 1712. 8vo.

A copy of this edition was item No. 273 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  361 Lactantii Opera omnia

      [8vo.      Cantabr.1685.         14]

Caecilius Firmianus Lactantius (A.D. 250?-317?). Lucii Coelii Lactantii
Firmiani opera, quæ extant omnia. Cantabrigiæ, ex officinâ Johan. Hayes,
impensis Hen. Dickinson, & Rich. Green, 1685. 8vo.

  Wing L140.

  _BM; Harv, Hunt._


  362 Livii Historiarum quod exstat. Ex
      Recensione _Gronovii_

      [12mo.     Amsterd 1678           6]

Titus Livius (59 B.C.-A.D. 17). Titi Livii historiarum libri, quot
extent. Ex recensione J. F. Gronovii. Amstelodami, apud Danielem
Elzevirium, 1678. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Free Library (Philadelphia), Newberry._


  363 ---- _Tomus 1. Gronovii_

      [12mo.     Lugd Bat 1654          5]

Titi Livii historiarum libri ex recensione J. F. Gronovii. 3 tom. Lugd
[uni] Batavorum, ex officinâ Elzevirianâ, 1654. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP (v. 2 only), Oberlin, Newberry._


  364 Lipsius de Constantia - - - apd. Plantin

      [4to.      Antv.1584              7]

Justus Lipsius (1547-1606). Justi Lipsi de constantia libri duo.
Antverpiae, apud Christophorum Plantinum, 1584. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Oregon._


  365 Life of Pythagoras Translated from
      the French Edit. of Mr.
      Dacier. With the Golden
      Verses, from ye Greek, by
      Nic. Rowe _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Lond 1707.            13]

André Dacier (1651-1722). The life of Pythagoras, with his symbols and
golden verses. By M. Dacier. . . . Now done into English . . . by
N. Rowe, Esq. London, for J. Tonson, 1707. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Michigan, Hunt._

See No. 631 for the French source of Rowe’s translation.


  366 ---- of Almanzor wth: ye History of ye
      Conquest of Spain by the
      Moors

      [8vo.      Ib.1695.               8]

Miguel de Luna (fl. 1600).

A copy of a 1695 edition has not been found. A copy of a 1693 edition
may be consulted at _BM; Harv, Michigan_.


  367 Lives and Characters of ye English
      Dram: Poets. 2 Vols.
      _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.1719.              28]

Giles Jacob (1686-1744). The poetical register: or, The lives and
characters of the English dramatick poets. London, for Edmund Curll,
1719. 8vo.

An historical account of the lives and writings of our most considerable
English poets. London, for Edmund Curll, 1720. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Ohio State, Hunt._

The Poetical Register, 8vo, 1719, was a part of item No. 414 in the
Leeds Sale, 1930.


  368 Lives of the Grecian Poets

      [8vo       Lond.1709           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 340 for what may be an earlier edition.

No copy of a 1709 edition has been found.


  369 Littlebury’s Herodotus 2 Vols.

      [8.        Ib.1720.              13]

See No. 286.


  370 Lambs Cookery Vide Compleat Court Cook

      [----      ....                  32]

See No. 110.


  371 Liturgia Ecclesiæ Anglicanæ Græcè

      [8vo.      Cantabr 1665.         14]

A Greek translation of the Book of Common Prayer of 1662, by James
Duport, Dean of Peterborough (1606-1679). Published at Cambridge by the
University printer, John Field, 1665.

  Wing B3632.

  _BM; NYP, Divinity School of the Protestant Episcopal Church
  (Philadelphia)._

Congreve’s copy, with the inscription “Ex libris Gulielmi: Congreve,” is
owned by the Reverend J. F. Gerrard, Wigan, England.


  372 Lettres Historiques et Galantes p
      Mad. de C.{xxx} 4 Tom
      Lent to Ds. M-h.

      [12mo.     Colon 1710            26]

Anne Marguerite Petit Du Noyer (1663-1719). Lettres historiques et
galantes. A Cologne, chez Pierre Marteau, 1707-1718. 7 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._

Perhaps Congreve had the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth volumes, dated
1710, 1711, 1712, 1713.


  373 ---- Persanes 2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1721.              26]

[Charles Louis de Secondat, Baron de la Brède et de Montesquieu
(1689-1755).]

Lettres Persanes. Seconde edition. 2 tom. Cologne, chez Pierre Marteau,
1721. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP._


  374 Lettres sur Les Anglois et les francois

      [12mo.     Cologn 1725           30]

    Entry by the second hand.

[Beat Louis de Muralt (1665-1749)]. Lettres sur les Anglois et les
François. Et sur les voiages. A Cologne, [no publisher given] 1725.
12mo.

  _BM; NYP, Cleveland Public, Michigan, Hunt._


  375 Mezzo Tinto Prints by J. Smith
      Large Papr.

      [Fol.      ---                   10]

No copy of a folio volume of prints by John Smith (1652-1742) has been
found. Congreve probably made a collection of Smith’s prints and had
them bound.


  376 Montaigne (Seignr. de) Essais

      [Fol.      Paris 1658.           15]

Michel Eyquem de Montaigne (1533-1592). Essais. . . . Avec augmentation
de la version françoise des passages italiens. Nouv. éd. A Paris,
E. Couterot (or P. Le Petit, etc.), 1657. fol.

  _BM; Harv, LC._

No copy of a folio edition, Paris, 1658, has been found.


  377 ---- Essais 3 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1659.               5]

Les essais de Michel de Montaigne. A Paris, chez Christophle Journel (or
L. Rondet), 1659. 3 tom. 12mo.

  _BN; Harv, Princeton._


  378 ---- Ditto. 3 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Bourdeaux 1582         6]

Essais . . . edition seconde, reveuë & augmentée. A Bourdeaus, impr. de
S. Millanges, 1582. 2 tom. en 1. Small 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP._


  379 ---- English by _Cha. Cotton_ 3 Vols[.]

      [8vo.      Lond.1695.            12]

Essays. . . . Made English by Charles Cotton. London, for
M. Gilliflower, W. Heusman, R. Bentley, and J. Hindmarsh, 1693. 3 vol.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv._

Congreve’s copy probably belonged to the second edition, 1693. No copy
of a 1695 edition has been found, and the edition of 1700 is called the
third.


  380 Milton’s (Jno.) Poetical Works in
      2 Vols _Large Paper_

      [4to.      Lond.1720.            17]

John Milton (1608-1674). The poetical works. London, for Jacob Tonson,
1720. 2 vol. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1153 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  381 ---- Ditto 3 Vols. with
      Cuts _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.1705.              19]

Paradise Lost . . . seventh edition, adorn’d with sculptures. 2 vol.
London, for Jacob Tonson, 1705. 8vo.

  _BM; LC._


  382 Malebranche de la Recherche de la
      Veritè

      [4to.      Paris 1712             2]

Nicholas Malebranche (1638-1715). De la recherche de la verité, où l’on
traitte de la nature de l’esprit de l’homme, & de l’usage qu’il en doit
faire pour éviter l’erreur dans les sciences. 6{e} éd. A Paris, chez
Michel David, 1712. 2 tom. enlarged 4to.

  _BN; Harv._


  383 Musarum Anglicanarum Analecta.
      2 Vol. _Charta Maj._

      [8vo.      Oxon 1699.            19]

Musarum Anglicanarum analecta . . . in duo volumina congesta. Oxon.,
e theatro Sheldoniano, impensis J. Crosley, 1699. 2 vol. 8vo.

  Wing M3136.

  _BM; Newberry, Texas, Hunt._


  384 Milbourne’s (Luke) Notes on Mr
      Dryden’s Virgil

      [8vo.      Lond.1698.             8]

Luke Milbourne (1649-1720). Notes on Dryden’s Virgil. In a letter to a
friend. With an essay on the same poet. London, for R. Clavill, 1698.
8vo.

  Wing M2035.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Newberry, Clark._


  385 Manilius’s Astronomy & Astrology, done
      into Eng. Verse, wth: Notes

      [8vo.      Ib.1697.              20]

Marcus Manilius (fl. A.D. 9). The five books of M. Manilius, containing
a system of the ancient astronomy and astrology: together with the
philosophy of the Stoicks. Done into English verse. With notes [by
T. C., i.e. T. Creech]. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1697. 8vo.

  Wing M430.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Miami (Ohio), Hunt._


  386 Moore’s (Sir Jonas) Treatise of
      Artillery or great
      Ordnance

      [8vo.      Ib.1683.               8]

Sir Jonas Moore (1617-1679). A general treatise of artillery . . . writ
in Italian by Tomaso Moretti, . . . translated . . . by Sir Jonas Moore.
London, by A. G. and J. P. for Obadiah Blagrave, 1683. 8vo.

  Wing M2726.

  _BM; Clark._


  387 Molyneux’s (Wm) Case of Ireland’s
      being bound by Acts of
      Parl. in Engld. Stated

      [8vo.      Dublin 1698.           8]

William Molyneux (1656-1698). The case of Ireland’s being bound by acts
of Parliament in England, stated. Dublin, by Joseph Ray, 1698. 8vo.

  Wing M2402.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Hunt._

Another octavo edition: Dublin, by and for J. R. And are to be sold by
Rob. Clavel, and A. and J. Churchil, booksellers in London, 1698. (Wing
M2403--_Cambridge; LC_)


  388 Menandri et Philemonis Reliquiæ
      Gr. Lat. cum Notis Hug.
      Grotii et Jo. Clerici

      [8vo.      Amsterd 1709.          7]

Menander (342?-291? B.C.) and Philemon (361?-263? B.C.). Menandri et
Philemonis reliquiæ . . . cum notis Hugonis Grotii et Joannis Clerici.
Amstelodami, apud Thomam Lombrail, 1709. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Michigan._


  389 de la Motte Fables Nouvelles

      [8vo.      Paris 1719.           30]

Antoine Houdar de La Motte (1672-1731). Fables nouvelles. A Paris, chez
Gregoire Depuis, 1719. 12mo.

  _BN; Harv, NYP._


  390 ---- Poesies et autres Ouvrages
      2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Brux.1707             24]

Poësies de Monsieur de la Motte avec un discours sur la poësie en
general, & sur l’ode en particulier. Suivant la copie de Paris, & se
vend, A Bruxelles, chez les Frères t’Serstevens, 1707. Small 8vo.

  _Biblioteca Marucelliana (Florence)._


  391 ---- l’Iliade, Poeme, avec un
      Discours Sur Homere

      [8vo.      Paris 1714.           18]

A Paris, chez Gregoire Depuis, 1714. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; LC._


  392 Marzio Coriolano Drama p Musica

      [12mo.     Ven.1698.             30]

Matteo Noris (_c._ 1640-1708). Marzio Coriolano. Drama per musica. Da
rappresentarsi nel famoso teatro di S. Gio: Grisostomo. L’anno 1698. In
Venezia, Nicolini, 1698. 12mo.

  _BN, Biblioteca Nationale Vittoria Emanuele (Rome); LC (Schatz 8303)._


  393 Moliere Oeuvres 8 Tom. avec Fig.
      en Taille-douce

      [12mo.     Paris 1697            25]

Jean Baptiste Poquelin de Molière (1622-1673). Les œuvres de Monsieur de
Molière. Reveuës, corrigées & augmentèes. Enrichies de figures en
taille-douce. 8 tom. A Paris, chez Denys Thierry, Claude Barbin, et
Pierre Trabouillet, 1697. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Chicago._


  394 Maisons de Campagne de Pline, avec
      des Remarques p Felibien

      [12mo.     Lond.1717.            12]

Jean François Félibien (_c._ 1658-1733). Les plans et les descriptions
de deux des plus belles maisons de campagne de Pline le Consul.
A Londres, chez David Mortier, 1707. 12mo.

  _Bodleian; Princeton._

Perhaps Congreve’s “1717” is an error for “1707.” There seems to have
been no 1717 edition.


  395 Sieurs de Maucroy et de la Fontaine
      Ouvrages de Prose et
      de Poësie

      [12mo.     Amst.1688             12]

François de Maucroix (1619-1708) and Jean de La Fontaine (1621-1695).
Ouvrages de prose et de poësie. A Amsterdam, chez Pierre Mortier. 1688.
12mo.

  _BN; Yale, LC._


  396 Miege’s State of Denmark

      [12mo.     Lond 1683              8]

Guy Miege (1644-1718?). The present state of Denmark. London, for Tho.
Basset, 1683. 8vo.

  Wing M2024.

  _Bodleian._


  397 Malthus’s Treatise of Artificial
      Fireworks

      [8vo.      Ib.1629.               6]

Francis Malthus (François de Malthe). A treatise of artificial fireworks
both for warres and recreation: with divers pleasant geometrical
observations, fortifications, and arithmeticall examples. . . .
Englished by the author Tho: [or rather Fra:] Malthus. London, for
Richard Hawkins, 1629. 8vo.

  STC 17217.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Hunt._


  398 Meursii Elegantiæ Latini Sermonis

      [12mo.     ------                24]

Nicholas Chorier (1612-1692). Joannis Meursii elegantiæ latini sermonis.
[No place or date. Perhaps 1680. Wrongly attributed to Johannes van
Meurs.] 12mo.

  _Bodleian; Chicago._


  399 Macrobii Opera cum _Notis Pontani_
      3 Vol.

      [8vo.      Lugd.Bat.1628          7]

Ambrosius Theodosius Macrobius (fl. _c._ A.D. 400). Aur. Theodosii
Macrobii . . . opera. Joh Isacius Pontanus secundo recensuit: adjectis
ad libros singulos notis. Lugduni Batavorum, ex officinâ Joannis Maire,
1628. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv._


  400 Management of ye War 2 Parts, _with
      other Pamphlets_

      [8vo.      Lond.1711.            33]

[Francis Hare, Bishop of Chichester (1671-1740)]. The management of the
war. In a letter to a Tory-member. London, for A. Baldwin, 1711. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry._

A second pamphlet with the same title was soon published by A. Baldwin
“In a second letter to a Tory-member,” and each was issued several times
during 1711.


  401 Minsheu’s Spanish & Eng. Dictionary
      vide Dictionary

      [....      -----                  2]

See No. 181.


  402 May’s Lucan see Lucan &c[.]

      [....      ....                   6]

See No. 346.


  403 Moivre’s Doctrine of Chances

      [4to.      Lond.1718.             2]

See No. 205.


  404 Memoirs of the Count de Grammont

      [8vo       Lon 1714            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Anthony Hamilton (1645?-1719). Memoirs of the life of Count de Grammont.
. . . Translated from the French by Mr. Boyer. London, J. Round,
W. Taylor, J. Brown, W. Lewis, and J. Graves, 1714. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Newberry._


  405 Miscellanies bound together Vizt.

      [4to.      ----                  28]

     a b Mother Shipton -- Tales of
      c  ye Fairies -- Dr. Merryman
      d  Hist. of Hercules of Greece
      e  ---- of Sir. Jno. Hawkwood
      f  ---- of Dorastus & Fawnia
      g  ---- of ye Gentle Craft
      h  ---- of ye Destruction of Troy
      i  ---- of ye Eng. Rogue
      j  ---- of Captain Hind
      k  ---- of Sir. Jno. Mandevile

Number 405 probably included the following:

(a) Richard Head (1637?-1686?). The life and death of Mother Shipton.
London, for B. Harris, 1677. 4to.

  Wing H1257--_Hunt._ (Or one of the quartos of 1684, 1687, or 1694.)

(b) Marie Catherine Jumelle de Berneville, Comtesse d’Aulnoy (d. 1705).
Tales of the fairys. Translated from the French. London, for
C. Cockerill, 1699. (_Term Catalogues_, III, 123, but described as in
“twelves.”)

(c) S[amuel] R[owlands] (1570?-1630?). Doctor Merry-man: or, Nothing but
mirth. London, for F. Coles, T. Vere, J. Wright, J. Clarke,
W. Thackeray, and T. Passinger, 1681. 4to.

  Wing R2083--_BM; Hunt._ (Or one of the quartos of 1609, 1616, 1618,
1619, 1627, 1657, or 1671.)

(d) The famous and renowned history of the life and glorious actions of
the mighty Hercules of Greece. [London, 1710?]. _BM; Folg._ (The Folger
has a second undated copy printed for S. Bates, probably about 1719.)

(e) Sir John de Hawkwood (d. 1394). The honour of the taylors; or, The
famous and renowned history of Sir John Hawkwood. London, by Alexander
Milbourn, for William Whitwood, 1687. 4to.

  Wing H2599.

  _BM; Yale, Newberry, Hunt._

(f) Robert Greene (1560?-1592). The plesant historie of Dorastus and
Fawnia. London, for F. Faulkner, 1636. 4to. STC 12292--_BM; Folg, Hunt._
(Or one of the quartos of 1648, 1655, 1664, 1677, 1684, 1688, 1694, or
1703.)

(g) Thomas Deloney (1543?-1600). The plesant and princely history of the
gentle craft. [London,] P. Wilde and sold by P. Brooksby, J. Deacon,
J. Back, J. Blare, and E. Tracy, 1696.

  Wing D962--_Bodleian; Newberry._ (Or one of the many earlier quartos.)

(h) Raoul Le Fèvre (fl. 1460). The auncient historie, of the destruction
of Troy. . . . Translated from the French into English by W. Caxton.
London, by Thomas Creede, 1596. 4to.

  STC 15379--_Bodleian; Folg, LC, Hunt._ (Or one of the many quartos of
the next century and a quarter.)

(i) Richard Head (1637?-1686?). The life and death of the English rogue.
London, for Eben. Tracy, [1700?]. 4to.

  Wing H1263.

  _BM; Clark._

(j) We have brought our hogs to a fair market; or, Strange news from
New-Gate; being a most plesant and historical narrative of Captain
J[ames] H[ind]. London, for George Horton, 1651. 4to.

  Wing W1178.

  _BM; Hunt._

(k) Sir John Mandeville (1300?-1372). The voyages and travels of Sir
John Mandeville, knight: wherein is set down the way to the Holy Land,
and to Hierusalem. London, by A. Wilde, for G. Conyers and
A. Bettesworth, 1722. 4to.

  _Bodleian; Harv, NYP, Library Company of Philadelphia (Ridgway
  Branch), Michigan._ (Or any of the earlier quartos.)


  406 ---- bound together Vizt.

      [4to       ---                   27]

    a      Dryden’s Essay on Dram. Poetry
    b      Horace’s Art of Poetry by ye
           E. of Roscommon--and
    c      the Rehearsal

This specially bound collection of three quartos, with Congreve’s
signature on each of the three title pages, was item No. 209 in the
Leeds Sale, 1930. Since the dates on these title pages are 1684, 1684,
and 1687, the quartos could have been only the following:

(a) Of dramatick poesie, an essay. By John Dryden. London, for Henry
Herringman, 1684. 4to.

  Wing D2328.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Chicago, Hunt._

(b) Horace’s Art of poetry. Made English by the Right Honourable the
Earl of Roscommon. London, for Henry Herringman, and sold by Joseph
Knight and Francis Saunders, 1684. 4to.

  Wing H2769.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Illinois, Hunt._

(c) The rehearsal. . . . The fifth edition. London, for Thomas Dring,
and sold by John Newton, 1687. 4to.

  Wing B5327.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Texas, Hunt._


  407 ---- bound together Vizt.

      [4to.      ---                   28]

      a    A mad World my Masters
     b c   Cupid’s Revenge -- Merry
      d    Wives of Windsor -- Byron’s
      e    Conspiracy -- Chapman’s Homer,
      f    and Heliodorus’s History in
           Verse by Wm Lisle

Number 407 probably included the following:

(a) Thomas Middleton’s A mad world my masters, in a quarto of 1608 (STC
17888--_BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Hunt_) or of 1640 (STC 17889--_BM; Harv,
Folg, Newberry, Texas, Hunt_). No. 490 indicates that the reference here
is to Middleton’s play rather than to Breton’s dialogue (STC 3667).

(b) Beaumont and Fletcher’s Cupid’s revenge, in a quarto of 1615 (STC
1667--_BM; Harv, Hunt_), of 1630 (STC 1668--_BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry,
Texas, Hunt_), or of 1635 (STC 1669--_Bodleian; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC,
Newberry, Hunt_).

(c) Shakespeare’s The merry wives of Windsor, in the 1630 quarto (STC
22301--_BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Hunt_). Also possible, but less likely
because of the wording of the titles, are the quartos of 1602 (STC
22299--_BM; Folg, Hunt_) and 1619 (STC 22300--_BM; Harv, Folg, Hunt_).

(d) George Chapman’s The conspiracie, and tragedie of Charles Duke of
Byron, Marshall of France, in a quarto of 1608 (STC 4968--_BM; Harv,
Folg. Illinois, Texas, Hunt_) or of 1625 (STC 4969--_BM; Harv, Folg, LC,
Newberry, Hunt_).

(e) George Chapman’s Seaven bookes of the Iliades of Homere, prince of
poets. London, by John Windet, 1598. 4to.

  STC 13632.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Hunt._

(f) The famous historie of Heliodorus. Amplified, augmented, and
delivered paraphrastically in verse; by . . . William Lisle. London, by
John Dawson for Francis Eglesfield, 1638. 4to.

  STC 13048.

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  408 ---- bound together Vizt.

      [12mo.     Lond.                 30]

           Merry Wives of Windsor
           King Henry IV. 2 parts
           Julius Caesar -- Hamlet
           & Othello Moor of Venice

The sequel of Henry the Fourth: with the humours of Sir John Falstaffe,
and Justice Shallow. . . . Alter’d from Shakespeare, by the late Mr.
Betterton. London, for W. Chetwood, and T. Jauncey, [_c._ 1720]. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Hunt._

Since _The sequel_ was the only “second” part of _Henry IV_ available
before Congreve’s death, it must have been one of the six plays in No.
408. The other five, as Dr. Giles Dawson of the Folger Shakespeare
Library has kindly pointed out, were all available about 1720-1721 in
the second edition of the T. Johnson octavos and may be consulted at the
Folger Library. Furthermore, these octavos were small, about the size of
the duodecimos of the period, and would have fitted well with _The
sequel_ into a volume which might easily have been classified according
to size as 12mo.


  409 Miscellaneous Poems & Translations
      vizt. Statius Thebais &c.

      [8vo.      Lond.1712.            20]

Miscellaneous poems and translations. By several hands. London, for
Bernard Lintott, 1712. 8vo. [Begins with Pope’s trans. of the _Thebais_
of Statius and ends with Pope’s _Rape of the Lock_.]

Case 260 (i) (a).

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  410 ---- Poems vizt. Temple of
      Death &c[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1701.              20]

A collection of poems: viz. The temple of death: by the Marquis of
Normanby . . . &c. London, for Daniel Brown and Benjamin Tooke, 1701.
8vo. [Congreve’s Epilogue to _Oroonko_ is printed on pp. 280-2.]

Case 151 (e).

  _BM; Yale, Folg, LC, Newberry, Texas, Clark._


  411 ---- Poems by ye D. of Bucks
      Cowley &c[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1692.              20]

[Charles Gildon (1665-1724)]. Miscellany poems upon several occasions:
consisting of original poems, by the late Duke of Buckingham, Mr.
Cowley, Mr. Milton, Mr. Prior, Mrs. Behn, Mr. Tho. Brown, &c. London,
for Peter Buck, 1692. 8vo. [Contains some of Congreve’s earliest printed
work, including “Upon a Lady’s Singing, Pindarick Ode, by Mr. Congreve,”
pp. 35-40. Other poems that may be Congreve’s are “The Decoy, a Song: By
W. C.,” pp. 64-65, and “The Masque, a Song: By W. C.,” pp. 71-72.]

  Wing G733A; Case 197.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Texas, Clark._


  412 ---- Poems by Oxford &
      Cambride Hands

      [8vo.      ---                   20]

Possibly the same as No. 446 (or the issue of [1709]).


  413 ---- Poems on ye Victories
      of Blenheim & Ramil-
      -lies by ye most Eminent
      Hands

      [Fol       London 1708.          15]

No. 413 was apparently a specially bound volume made up of Addison’s
_Campaign_ (which had appeared twice in 1705 and again in 1708),
Congreve’s _A Pindarique Ode on the Victorious Progress of her Majesties
Arms_ (1706), and other poems. In Sotheby’s catalogue for the Leeds
Sale, 1930, item No. 5 reads as follows: “Addison (J.), William Congreve
and others. A Collection of Poems . . . upon the Victories of Blenheim
and Ramillies, _panelled calf. folio._ 1708.” And perhaps it was this
same unique volume that Sotheby advertised for sale on 23 November 1931:
“A Collection of Poems . . . upon the Victories of Blenheim and
Ramilies. By the most Eminent Hands, 1708.” (_CHEL_, II, 188)


  414 ---- Poems by Mr. Steele

      [8vo       Lond.1714           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 568.


  415 ---- Tea-Table

      [24to      ....                ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Allan Ramsay (1686-1758). The tea-table miscellany. Edinburgh, by Mr.
Thomas Ruddiman, for Allan Ramsey, 1724. Small 12mo.

Case 333.

  _Leeds; LC, Hunt._


  416 Microcosmographie or Characters

      [24to      Lond.1629           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 231, an entry by the first hand, which lists Congreve’s copy of
the _Microcosmographie_ (1629) as 12mo. This entry by the third hand
(No. 416) probably refers to the copy mentioned in No. 231, and no doubt
errs in giving the format as 24to. The seven known editions of the
_Microcosmographie_ between 1628 and 1638 are all in 12mo.


  417 Miscellaneous Letters & Essays

      [8vo.      Lond.1694.             8]

[Charles Gildon, 1665-1724.] Miscellaneous letters and essays, on
several subjects. Philosophical, moral, historical, critical, amorous,
&c. in prose and verse. Directed to John Dryden, Esq; the Honourable
Geo. Granville, Esq; Walter Moyle, Esq; Mr. Dennis, Mr. Congreve, and
other eminent men of the age. By several gentlemen and ladies. London,
for Benjamin Bragg, 1694. 8vo.

  Wing G732.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  418 Miscellanies in Prose & Verse See Dr Swift’s

      [....      - - ----              28]

See No. 553.


  419 Medicina Statica vide Sanctorius

      [....      ....                   4]

See No. 563.


  420 Miscellanies, Pope & Swift - 3 vol.

      [8{vo}.     Lond:1727.            27]

    Entry by the second hand.

Miscellanies in prose and verse. London, for Benjamin Motte, 1727. 8vo.
[The fourth and fifth volumes appeared in 1732 and 1735, after
Congreve’s death.]

Case 343-344(?).

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  421 Newton’s (Sir Isaac) Opticks

      [4to.      London 1704.           2]

Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727). Opticks: or, A treatise of the reflexions,
refractions, inflexions and colours of light. London, Sam. Smith, and
Benj. Walford, 1704. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Illinois, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 469 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  422 Nature of Man, a Poem. _L. Paper_[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1711.              28]

[Sir Richard Blackmore (d. 1729)]. The nature of man. A poem. In three
books. London, for Sam. Buckley, and sold by the booksellers of London
and Westminster, 1711. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Newberry, Clark._


  423 Nereides, Sea Eclogues

      [8vo.      Ib.1712.              20]

[William Diaper (d. 1717)]. Nereides: or, Sea-eclogues. London, by J. H.
for E. Sanger, 1712. 8vo. [Poetic dedication to Congreve.]

  _BM; Harv, LC, Newberry._

A copy of this edition was item No. 190 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  424 Natalis Comitis Mythologiæ Libri X

      [8vo.      Genev.1651             7]

Natale Conti (1520?-1580?). Natalis Comitis Mythologiæ, sive
Explicationis fabularum, libri decem. Genevæ, sumptibus Petri Chouët,
1651. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Washington and Lee, Chicago._


  425 Nouvelles toutes Nouvelles

      [12mo.     Amsterd 1710.         26]

Chevalier de Mailly (d. _c._ 1724). Nouvelles toutes nouvelles, par
M. D. L. C. A Amsterdam, aux dépens d’Estienne Roger, 1710. 12mo.

  _BM; Minnesota._


  426 Newton’s Chronology, unbound

      [4to       Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727). The chronology of ancient kingdoms
amended. London, for J. Tonson, and J. Osborn and T. Longman, 1728. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  427 Ovid’s Metamorphoses in XV. Books:
      Translated by ye most
      Eminent Hands: and
      adorn’d wth. Sculptures.
      Large Paper

      [Fol.      Lond.1717.            16]

Publius Ovidius Naso (43 B.C.-A.D. 17). Ovid’s metamorphoses in fifteen
books. Translated by the most eminent hands. [J. Dryden, J. Addison,
W. Congreve, etc.]. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1717. fol.

Case 298.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this large paper edition was item No. 486 in the Leeds Sale,
1930. Congreve translated a part of Book X.


  428 ---- Ditto Translated by G. Sandys

      [Fol.      Ib.1640.              15]

Ovids metamorphosis Englished, mythologiz’d, and represented in figures.
. . . By G[eorge] S[andys]. London, J. L[egatt] for Andrew Hebb, 1640.
fol.

  STC 18968.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Illinois, Hunt._


  429 ---- Art of Love, Together with
      his Remedy of Love &c
      Translated into Eng. Verse
      By Eminent Hands - &
      adorn’d wth. Cuts. _Large Papr._

      [8vo.      Ib.1709.              28]

Ovid’s Art of love. In three books. Together with his remedy of love.
Translated into English verse by several eminent hands [J. Dryden,
W. Congreve, and N. Tate.] Adorn’d with cuts. London, for Jacob Tonson,
1709. 8vo.

Case 252.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Clark._

Congreve translated Book III of the _Art of Love_, pp. 179-267.


  430 ---- Ditto. Small Paper

      [8vo.      Ib.1709.              20]

See No. 429.

  _NYP._


  431 ---- Epistles Translated by
      Several Hands

      [8vo.      Ib.1681.              20]

Ovid’s epistles, translated by several hands. [Preface by Dryden.] The
second edition, with the addition of a new epistle. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1681. 8vo.

  Wing O660.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Michigan, Clark._


  432 Ovidii Elegiarum sive Amorum Libri

      [------    ....                   6]

P. Ovidii Nasonis amorum libri tres. Cum interpretatione gallica et
recentioribus notis. Lutetiæ Parisorum, apud viduam Petri Lamy, 1661.
8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Columbia, Iowa._


  433 ---- Opera 3 Vol. _Foliis deauratis._
      apud. Jac. Tonson

      [12mo.     Ib.1715               24]

P. Ovidii Nasonis opera tribus tomis comprehensa. Londini, ex officinâ
Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1715. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Pennsylvania, Chicago._


  434 ---- his Art of Love English’d; wth:
      ye Loves of Hero & Leander
      a Mock Poem

      [12mo.     Ib.1684.              20]

Ovid de arte amandi, and The remedy of love Englished. As also The loves
of Hero and leander, a mock poem: together with choice poems, and rare
pieces of drollery. London, printed in the year 1684. 12mo.

  Wing O653.

  _Yale, Folg._


  435 Ogelby off the Roads

      [8vo       Lond.1727              4]

    Entry by the second hand.

John Ogilby (1600-1676). Britannia depicta or Ogilby improv’d; being a
correct copy of Mr. Ogilby’s actual survey of all ye direct & principal
cross roads in England and Wales. London, Tho. Bowles, 1720. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry._

A copy of a 1727 edition has not been located.


  436 Olearius’s Travels, by Davis; V. Ambassador’s

      [Fol.      Lond.1669           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 4.


  437 Ovidii Amorum Lib.

      [8vo       ....                ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

See No. 432.


  438 Oak and Dunghill, a Fable

      [Fol.      Ib.1728             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

[William Broome (1689-1745?)]. The oak, and the dunghill. A fable in
verse. London, J. Roberts, 1728. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Illinois._


  439 Ocean, an Ode

      [....      Ib.1728             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Edward Young (1683-1765). Ocean. An ode. Occasion’d by His Majesty’s
late royal encouragement of the sea-service. . . . By the author of The
universal passion. London, for Tho. Worrall, 1728. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Texas, Clark._


  440 Ovington’s Voyage to Surat Anno 1689

      [8vo.      London 1696           28]

John Ovington (1653-1731). A voyage to Suratt, in the year, 1689.
London, for Jacob Tonson, 1696. 8vo.

  Wing O701.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, LC, Newberry._


  441 Oldham’s Works, with his Remains

      [8vo.      Ib.1686.              20]

John Oldham (1653-1683). The works of Mr. John Oldham, together with his
remains. 4 pt. London, for Jo. Hindmarsh, 1686. 8vo.

Brooks 21; Wing O228.

  _BM; Yale, Folg._

Congreve’s copy, with the signature “Will: Congreve” on the title page,
was item No. 479 in the Leeds Sale of 1930 (where the date was wrongly
given as 1687) and is now in the Yale Library. An examination of this
copy shows that it belongs to the last of the three editions of 1686.


  442 Oughtred’s Circles of Proportion

      [8vo.      Oxon 1660              8]

William Oughtred (1575-1660). The circles of proportion and the
horizontal instrument. Oxford, by W. Hall, for R. Davis, 1660. 8vo.

  Wing O572.

  _BM; Cincinnati, Michigan._

A copy of this edition was item No. 485 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  443 Officiers de Bouche

      [8vo.      Par.1716.             32]

See No. 240.


  444 Otway’s (Tho.) Plays

      [4to.      London 1687.          27]

Thomas Otway (1652-1685). Apparently these “Plays” consisted of separate
quartos which Congreve had bound in one volume. Such a volume, with
Congreve’s signature on the title page, was item No. 484 in the Leeds
Sale, 1930. The date assigned to this volume is probably derived from
one of the two quartos dated 1687: _Alcibiades_ (Wing O540--_BM; Harv,
LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt_) and _The Souldiers Fortune_ (Wing O564--_BM;
Harv, LC, Newberry_).


  445 Orpheus Britannicus vide Purcell

See No. 462.


  446 Oxford & Cambridge Miscellany Poems

      [8vo       ---                   20]

[Elijah Fenton (1683-1730), ed.] Oxford and Cambridge miscellany poems.
London, for Bernard Lintott, [1708]. 8vo.

Case 248.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Texas._

Lintott brought out another issue in [1709].

  _NYP, Princeton, LC, Chicago._


  447 L: Ortographe Francoise par Ozinde

      [4to.      Lon.1725              30]

    Entry by the second hand.

J. B. Ozinde. Pratique de l’ortographe et de la pronunciation de la
langue françoise. A Londres, chez Henry Woodfall, 1725. 8vo.

  _Bodleian._


  448 Plauti: Comediæ Notis Variorum 4 vol.

      [8vo.      Amstelmi:             29]

    Entry by the second hand.

M. Acci Plauti Comœdiæ. Accedit commentarius ex variorum notis &
observationibus, ex recensione Joh. Frederici Gronovii. Editio
novissima. Amstelodami, ex typographia Blaviana, 1684. 2 vol. 8vo.

  _BM, Royal Library (The Hague); NYP, LC, Michigan._

Perhaps Congreve had a copy specially bound in four volumes.


  449 Prideaux Connexion of the Old & New Testam[.]

      [Fol       Lond.1717           ....]

    Entry by the third hand crossed through but legible.

See No. 454.


  450 Plautus’s 3 Comedies made Eng.

      [8vo.      Lond.1694             20]

Titus Maccius Plautus (254?-184 B.C.). Plautus’s comedies, Amphitryon,
Epidicus, and Rudens, made English: with critical remarks upon each
play. London, for Abel Swalle and T. Child, 1694. 8vo.

  Wing P2415.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  451 Plautii Comœdiæ Notis _Lambini_.
      apd. Maceum

      [Fol.      Paris 1587            16]

M. Accius Plautus ex fide, atque auctoritate complurium librorum
manuscriptorum opera Dionys. Lambini emendatus & comentariis explicatus.
Lutetiæ [Paris], apud Bartholomæum Macæum, 1587. fol.

  _BN; Harv._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 417 in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


  452 ---- Fabulæ ex Recensione
      _Doussica_

      [12mo.     Franc.1604             5]

Fabulæ. . . . Ex recensione Dousica, etc. Francofurti, excudebat Joannes
Saurius, impensis Petri Kopffij, 1604. 12mo.

  _BM; Mount Holyoke._


  453 Paul’s (Father) History of ye Council
      of Trent. Eng. _by Brent_

      [Fol.      Lond.1620.            15]

Paolo Sarpi (1552-1623). The historie of the Councel of Trent. . . .
Written in Italian . . . translated into English by Nathanael Brent.
London, Robert Barker and John Bill, 1620. fol.

  STC 21761.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  454 Prideaux’s (Humph.) Connection of
      ye Hist. of ye Old & New
      Testament. 2 Vols[.]

      [Fol.      Ib.1717.              15]

Humphrey Prideaux (1648-1724). The Old and New Testament connected in
the history of the Jews and neighbouring nations. 2 pt. London, for
R. Knaplock and J. Tonson, 1717-1718. fol.

  _BM; Washington and Lee, Indiana._


  455 Pembroke’s Arcadia, written by Sir Ph.
      Sidney. With his Life & D.

      [Fol       Ib.1674.              15]

Sir Philip Sidney (1554-1586). The Countess of Pembroke’s Arcadia. The
thirteenth edition. London, for George Calvert, 1674. fol.

  Wing S3770.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 600 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  456 Poetæ Graæcæ Principes, apd. H. Steph.

      [Fol.      Paris 1566            15]

Henri Estienne (1528-1598). Poetae græci principes heroici carminis, &
alii nonnulli. [Paris], excudebat Henricus Stephanus, 1566. fol.

  _Royal College of Physicians (London); Harv, LC, Illinois._


  457 Pausaniæ accurata Græciæ De-
      -scriptio Gr. Lat.

      [Fol       Hanov 1613            15]

Pausanius (fl. 174 A.D.). Pausaniæ accurata Græciæ descriptio . . .
a Guilielmo Xylandro Augustano diligenter recognita. Hanoviæ, typis
Wechelianis, apud hæredes Claudi Marnii, 1613. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Chicago._


  458 Prior’s (Mat.) Poems - - Large Papr.

      [Fol.      Lond 1718             16]

Matthew Prior (1664-1721). Poems on several occasions. L. P. London, for
Jacob Tonson, and John Barber, 1718. fol

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers. A copy of
this large paper edition was item No. 522 (also No. 523) in the Leeds
Sale, 1930.


  459 ---- Ditto - - - Small Papr[.]

      [Fol.      Ib.1718.              15]

See No. 458.


  460 ---- Ditto

      [8vo.      Ib.1709.              20]

Poems on several occasions. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1709. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this was item No. 521 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  461 Poems on Sevl. Occasions by Mrs S.F[.]

      [12mo.     Ib. ___               20]

S[arah] F[yge Egerton]. Poems on several occasions, together with a
pastoral. By Mrs. S. F. London, printed, and are to be sold by J. Nutt,
[1710?]. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry._

An earlier edition, dated 1706, is probably represented by No. 255
above. The pastoral is dedicated to Congreve.


  462 Purcell’s (Hen.) Orpheus Britannicus.
      or Collection of Songs 2 Vols[.]

      [Fol.      Ib.1698.              21]

Henry Purcell (1658-1695). Orpheus Britannicus. A collection of all the
choicest songs for one, two, and three voices. London, by
J. Heptinstall, for Henry Playford, 1698-1702. 2 vol. fol. [Vol. II,
1702: by William Pearson, for Henry Playford]

  Wing P4218; Day and Murrie, _English Song Books_, No. 166.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy, with his signature on the title page of the first
volume, was item No. 459 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  463 Pinto’s Voyages & Travels

      [Fol.      Ib.1663.               2]

Fernam Mendes Pinto (1509?-1583). The voyages and adventures, of
Ferdinand Mendez Pinto, a Portugal: during his travels for the space of
one and twenty years in the kingdoms of Ethiopia, China, Tartaria,
Cauchinchina, Calaminham, Siam, Pegu, Japan, and a great part of the
East-Indies. With a relation and description of most of the places
thereof; their religion, laws, riches, customs, and government in the
time of peace and war. Where he five times suffered shipwrack, was
sixteen times sold, and thirteen times made a slave. . . . Done into
English by H[enry] C[ogan]. London, by J. Macock, to be sold by Henry
Herringman, 1663. fol.

  Wing M1706.

  _BM; Yale, Pennsylvania, LC, Newberry._

A copy of this edition was part of item No. 480 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.
In _Love for Love_ Congreve refers to Pinto as a “Liar of the first
magnitude.”


  464 Pindari Opera. Cura Schmidii

      [4to.      Witeb.1616            21]

Pindar (518-438 B.C.) . . . hoc est Pindari lyricorum principis. . . .
Opera Erasmi Schmidii Delitiani. [Witebergæ], sumptibus Zachariæ
Schureri, 1616. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  465 Pope’s (Mr Alex.) Translation of
      ye ILIAD of Homer in
      VI. Vols. _Large Paper_

      [4to.      Lond 1715             17]

Alexander Pope (1688-1744). The Iliad of Homer. Translated by Mr. Pope.
London, by W. Bowyer, for Bernard Lintott, 1715-1720. 6 vol. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was part of item No. 312 and also of item No. 313
in the Leeds Sale, 1930. Congreve’s name appears in the list of
subscribers printed in the first volume. Although the regular
subscribers received the first volume on 6 June 1715 (see the _Post Boy_
for Tuesday, 31 May 1715), Congreve received his copy five days in
advance, as shown by Congreve’s holographic receipt preserved at the
Huntington Library: “June 1st: 1715 Received of Mr. Lintott the first
volume of Mr Popes translation of Homer by me Wm Congreve.” Pope’s
dedication of his _Iliad_ to Congreve appears in the last volume, 1720,
pp. 220-221.


  466 ---- Translation ye
      ODYSSEY in 5 Vols
      _Large Paper_

      [4to.      Ib.1725.              11]

The Odyssey of Homer. London, for Bernard Lintott, 1725-1726. 5 vol.
4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was part of item No. 312 and also of item No. 313
in the Leeds Sale, 1930.

Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers.


  467 ---- Works - - _Large Paper_

      [4to.      Ib.1717.               2]

The works of Mr. Alexander Pope. London, by W. Bowyer, for Bernard
Lintot, 1717. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1172 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  468 Ponti’s (Sieur de) Memoirs Eng. by Charles
      Cotton

      [Fol.      Ib.1694.              15]

Louis de Pontis (1583-1670). Memoirs of the Sieur de Pontis; who served
in the army six and fifty years, under King Henry IV. Lewis the XIII.
and Lewis the XIV. . . . Faithfully Englished by Charles Cotton, Esq.
London, by F. Leach, for James Knapton, 1694. fol.

  Wing P2807.

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Newberry, Clark._


  469 Pratique du Theatre

      [4to.      Par.1657             14.]

François Hédelin, Abbé d’Aubignac (1604-1676). La pratique du theatre,
œuvre tres-necessaire a tous ceux qui veulent s’appliquer à la
composition des poëmes dramatiques. A Paris, chez Antoine de Sommaville,
1657. 4to.

  _BM; Vassar, Chicago._

For the English translation of this work see No. 10.


  470 Plutarch’s Lives Translated by Several
      Hands 5 Vols. wth. Cuts - -
      _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      London 1693           13]

Plutarch (_c._ A.D. 46-_after_ 120). Plutarch’s lives. Translated from
the Greek, by several hands. London, by R. E. for Jacob Tonson, 1693. 5
vol. 8vo.

  Wing P2367.

  _Cambridge (Trinity College); Folg, Newberry._


  471 Patru (Mr. de) Plaidoyers et Oeuvres
      Diverses

      [8vo.      Paris 1681.           14]

Olivier Patru (1604-1681). Plaidoyers et œuvres diverses de Monsieur
Patru. . . . Nouvelle édition. 2 pt. Paris, chez Sebastien
Mabre-Cramoisy, 1681. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  472 Polybius’s History of ye World. English’d
      by Sir _H: Sheers_ 2 Vols.

      [8vo.      London 1693           13]

Polybius (_c._ 203?-_c._ 120 B. C). The history of Polybius. . . .
Translated by Sir H. S[hears]. To which is added, a character of
Polybius and his writings: by Mr. Dryden. London, for Samuel Briscoe,
1693. 2 vol. 8vo.

  Wing P2786.

  _BM; Harv, NYP (v. 2), Folg, LC, Clark._


  473 Petronius Arbiter’s Satyr. English’d
      by _Mr Burnaby_

      [8vo.      Ib.1694.               8]

Titus Petronius Arbiter (d. 66 A.D.). The satyr of Titus Petronius
Arbiter, a Roman knight. With its fragments, recover’d at Belgrade. Made
English by Mr. Burnaby of the Middle-Temple, and another hand. London,
for Samuel Briscoe, 1694. 8vo.

  Wing P1881.

  _BM; Harv, Cleveland Public, Clark._


  474 Plinii Secundi Historia Naturalis,
      Variorum Notis 3 Vol.

      [8vo.      Lugd.Bat.1669.         4]

Gaius Plinus Secundus (A.D. 23/4-79). C. Plinii Secundi naturalis
historiæ. Lugd. Batav., apud Hackios, 1669. 3 vol. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Michigan._


  475 Parnell’s (Tho.) Poems

      [8vo.      Lond.1722.            20]

Thomas Parnell (1679-1718). Poems on several occasions. . . . Published
[with a dedication, in verse] by Mr. Pope. London, for B. Lintot, 1722.
8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  476 Pomey Pantheon Mythicum, seu Fabu
      -losa Deorum Historia

      [12mo.     Ultraj.1697.          24]

François Antoine Pomey (1618-1673). Pantheum mythicum, seu Fabulosa
deorum, historia, hoc primo epitomes eruditionis volumine, breviter
dilucidéque comprehensa. Editio quinta. Ultrajecti, apud Guiljelmum van
de Water, 1697. 12mo.

  _BM._


  477 Patin (Guy) Lettres Choises 3 Tom.

      [12mo.     Par.1692.             12]

Guy Patin (1602-1672). Lettres choisies. A Paris, chez Jean Petit, 1692.
2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Pennsylvania, LC, Newberry._


  478 ---- Lettres nouvelles 2 Tom.

      [12mo.     Amst.1718.            12]

Nouvelles lettres . . . tirées du cabinet de Mr. Charles Spon.
A Amsterdam, chez Steenhouwer & Uytwerf, 1718. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  479 Phillippes’s Mathematical Manual

      [....      Lond.1678              6]

Henry Phillippes. A mathematical manual. London, by A. Clark, for
W. Fisher, E. Thomas, J. Northcot, and E. Harlock, 1677. 8vo. [Included
are tables printed in 1678.]

  Wing P2048A.

  _Michigan._


  480 Platon Oeuvres avec des Remarques
      2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Paris 1699            12]

Plato (e. 429-347 B.C.). Les œuvres de Platon [the dialogues only]
traduites en françois, avec des remarques . . . [by A. Dacier.] A Paris,
chez Jean Anisson, 1699. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; NYP._


  481 Pedantius, Comœdia

      [12mo.     Lond.1631.             5]

Pedantius. Comœdia, olim. Cantabrig. Acta in Coll. Trin. Londini,
excudebat W. S., impensis Roberti Mylbourn, 1631. 12mo.

  STC 19524.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  482 le Puits de la Veritè, Nouvelle Gauloise

      [12mo.     Amst.1699.             6]

Charles Rivière Dufresny (1654-1724). Le puits de la verité, nouvelle
gauloise. Suivant la copie imprimée à Paris. A Amsterdam, chez Henry
Desbordes, 1699. 12mo.

  _Acad. Lugduni Batavorum (Leyden); LC._


  483 Phædri Fabularum Æsopicarum Lib. V.
      _Foliis deauratis._ apd. Tonson

      [12mo.     Lond.1713.            24]

Phaedrus (_c._ 15 B.C.-_c._ A.D. 50). Phædri . . . Fabularum Æsopiarum
libri quinque. Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts,
1713. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  484 Il Pastor Fido del Guarini _con Fig._

      [24to.     Amsterd.1678.          5]

Giovanni Battista Guarini (1538-1612). Il pastor fido, tragicomedia
pastorale. In Amsterdam, nella stamperia del S. D. Elsevier. Et in
Parigi si vende appresso Thomaso Jolly, 1678. 16mo.

  _BM; Boston Public._


  485 Poems on Blenheim vide Miscellaneous Poems

      [Fol.      ---                   15]

See No. 413.


  486 Polexander vide History of &c[.]

      [Fol.      ---                    2]

See No. 308.


  487 Philippiques de Demosthene

      [4to.      Paris.1701.           22]

See No. 212.


  488 Philosophiè de Gassendi 7 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Lyon 1684.            12]

See No. 272.


  489 Pharsale de Lucain

      [12mo.     Haye 1700.            24]

See No. 345.


  490 Plays a Mad World my Masters &c[.]

      [4to.      ---                   28]

See No. 407(a).


  491 ---- Merry Wives of Windsor &c[.]

      [12mo      ----                  30]

See No. 408.


  492 Pemberton’s View of Newton’s Philosophy

      [4to       Lond.1728.          ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Henry Pemberton (1694-1771). A view of Sir Isaac Newton’s philosophy.
London, printed by S. Palmer, 1728. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1149 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  493 Quintiliani Institut. Oratoriæ Apud
      _Rob. Stephanum_

      [4to.      Paris 1542            22]

Marcus Fabius Quintilianus (First century after Christ). M. Fabii
Quintiliani oratoris eloquentissimi, institutionum oratoriarum.
Parisiis, ex officina Rob. Stephani typographi regii, 1542. 4to.

  _BM; Illinois._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1272 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  494 Quevedo Oeuvres 2d. Tome, contenant
      le VII. Visions

      [12mo.     Bruss.1699.           29]

Francisco Gomez de Quevedo Villegas (1580-1645). Les oeuvres. . . .
Seconde partie. Contenante les sept visions. A Brusselles, chez Josse de
Grieck, 1699. 12mo.

  _BM._


  495 ---- Oeuvres 2 Tomes, avec Fig.

      [12mo.     Ib.1718.              26]

Les œuvres. A Bruxelles, chez Joseph t’Serstevens, 1718. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _Royal Library (The Hague)._


  496 Quinte Curce de la Traduction de Vaugelas.

      [12mo      Amst.1696.            11]

Quintus Curtius Rufus (fl. A.D. 50). Quinte Curce, de la vie & des
actions d’Alexandre le Grand. De la traduction de M. de Vaugelas.
A Amsterdam, chez Henry Wetstein, 1696. 8vo.

  _BM._


  497 Quintus Curtius---_Foliis deauratis._ apd Tonson

      [12mo      Lond.1716.            24]

Quinti Curtii Rufi de rebus gestis Alexandri Magni libri. [Ed. Michael
Maittaire.] Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1716.
12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Ohio Wesleyan, Hunt._


  498 Quincy’s Dispensatory See Dispensatory

      [----      - - - -                4]

See No. 213.


  499 Raii (Jo.) Historia Plantarum 2 Vol.
      _Charta Majori_

      [Fol.      Lond 1686             16]

John Ray (1627-1705). Historia plantarum, etc. Londini, typis Mariæ
Clark, prostant apud Henricum Faithorne & Joannem Kersey, 1686-1704. 3
tom. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Michigan._

Apparently Congreve had only the first two volumes. These were listed
under No. 1181 in the Hornby Castle Sale, 1930, as “fol. 1686-8.”


  500 Rycaut’s (Sir Paul) Royal Commentaries
      of Peru. Illustrated
      wth. Sculptures

      [Fol.      Ib.1688.              15]

Garcilasso de la Vega, el Inca (_c._ 1540-1616). The royal commentaries
of Peru. . . . rendered into English, by Sir Paul Rycaut. London, by
Miles Flesher, for Jacob Tonson, 1688. fol.

  Wing G217.

  _Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy was probably of the issue by Jacob Tonson, but it could
have belonged to any one of the other three folio issues of 1688: Wing
G214 (By Miles Flesher, for Richard Tonson)--_Bodleian; Virginia_; Wing
G215 (By Miles Flesher, for Samuel Heyrick)--_Cambridge; Yale, Folg,
Michigan_; Wing G216 (By Miles Flesher, for Christopher Wilkinson)--_BM;
Harv, Chicago, Hunt_. Copies of a 1688 folio edition were listed under
Nos. 1199 and 1223 in the Hornby Castle Sale, 1930.


  501 Rhodigini (Lud. Cœlii) Lectiones Antiquæ.
      apd. Wecheli Heredes

      [Fol.      - ---- 1599.          15]

Ludovicus Coelius Richerius (1450-1520). Ludovici Caelii Rhodigini
lectionum antiquarum libri XXX . . . Postrema editio. [Frankfurt], apud
heredes Andreae Wecheli Claudium Marnium & Joannem Aubrium, 1599. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Library Company of Philadelphia (Ridgway Branch)._

Congreve’s copy, with the signature “Wm. Congreve” on the title page,
was item No. 350 in Catalogue No. 335 of Myers & Co., 1941; also item
No. 423 in the Meyerstein Sale, Sotheby & Co., December 17, 1952. The
book carries the bookplate of the Duke of Leeds and the penciled note:
“bought at Hornby Castle,” evidently in the sale of 1930.


  502 Rousseau (Mr. de) Oeuvres diverses
      2 Tom. _Ch. Maj._ et Corio
      Turcico undique deaurato

      [4to.      Lond.1723.            17]
      [          _apd.Tonson_            ]

Jean Baptiste Rousseau (1670-1741). Œuvres diverses de Mr. Rousseau.
Nouvelle edition. A Londres, Jacob Tonson & Jean Watts, 1723. 2 tom.
4to.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Clark._

A copy of this edition was item No. 549 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  503 ---- Oeuvres

      [12mo.     Rotterd.1719.         30]

Les œuvres choisies du Sr. Rousseau, contenant ses odes, odes sacrées de
l’édition de Soleure, & cantates. A Rotterdam, chez Fritsch & Bohm,
1719. 12mo.

  _BM._


  504 Regis (Pierre Silvain) Cours entier
      de Philosophie. 3 Tom.

      [4to.      Amsterd 1691          14]

Pierre Silvain Regis (1632-1707). Cours entier de philosophie, ou
Système general selon les principes de M. Descartes. A Amsterdam, aux
dépens des Huguetan, 1691. 3 tom. 4to.

  _BM; Yale, Princeton, Chicago._


  505 Rogers on ye 39 Articles of ye Ch. of Engd.

      [4to.      London 1661           14]

Thomas Rogers (d. 1616). The faith, doctrine, and religion, professed,
and protected in the realm of England . . . in thirty-nine articles.
London, by John Field, to be sold by George Sawbridge, 1661. 4to.

  Wing R1833.

  _BM; Boston Public, Illinois, Wisconsin._


  506 Rabelais’s Works 2 Vols[.]

      [8vo.      Lond.1708.            28]

François Rabelais (1494?-1553). The whole works of F. Rabelais, M. D.
London, for James Woodward, 1708. 2 vol. 8vo.

  _BM; Cleveland Public, Illinois._


  507 Roscommon’s (Earl of.) Poems. _L. Paper._

      [8vo.      Ib.1717.              19]

Wentworth Dillon, Earl of Roscommon (1633?-1685). Poems. . . . To which
is added, An essay on poetry, by the Earl of Mulgrave, now Duke of
Buckingham. Together with poems by Mr. Richard Duke. London, for
J. Tonson, 1717. 8vo.

  _BM; Ham, Folg, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 548 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  508 Rochester’s (Earl of) Poems, With ye
      Frag. of Valentinian

      [8vo.      Ib.1691.              20]

John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester (1647-1680). Poems, &c. on several
occasions: with Valentinian, a tragedy. [Third edition.] London, for
Jacob Tonson, 1691. 8vo.

  Wing R1756.

  _Bodleian; Harv, Folg, Chicago, Hunt._


  509 Rapin’s Reflections on Aristotle’s Art of
      Poetry

      [8vo.      Ib.1674.               8]

Rene Rapin (1621-1687). Reflections on Aristotle’s treatise of poesie.
London, by T. N. for H. Herringman, 1674. 8vo.

  Wing R270.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Folg, Newberry._

A translation by Thomas Rymer.


  510 ---- Oeuvres diverses ---- 2 Tomes

      [8vo.      Amst.1686.            12]

Œuvres diverses . . . concernant les belles lettres. A Amsterdam, chez
Abraham Wolfgang, 1686. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Washington State College._


  511 Regulating ye Silver Coin made easy

      [8vo.      1696.                  8]

[Samuel Pratt (1659?-1723)]. The regulating silver coin, made
practicable and easie, to the government and subject. Humbly submitted
to the consideration of both houses of Parliament. By a lover of his
country. London, for Henry Bonwick, 1696. 8vo.

  Wing P3184.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Chicago, Hunt._


  512 Reignier (L’Abbe) sur le Premier
      Livre d’Iliade

      [8vo.      Paris 1700            18]

François Séraphin, Abbé Regnier-Desmarais (1632-1713). Le premier livre
de l’Iliade en vers françois. Avec une dissertation sur quelques
endroits d’Homere. A Paris, chez Jean Anisson, 1700. 8vo.

  _BN; LC._


  513 Roland l’Amoureux 2 Vol. avec Fig.

      [12mo.     Ib.1717.              23]

Matheo Maria Boyardo, Conte di Scandiano (_c._ 1434-1494). Nouvelle
traduction de Roland L’Amoureux. A Paris, chez Pierre Ribou, 1717. 2
tom. 12mo.

  _BN; Clark._


  514 Racine (Mr. de) Oeuvres 2 Tom.

      [12mo      Ib.1697.              25]

Jean Baptiste Racine (1639-1691). Œuvres. A Paris, chez Claude Barbin
(or D. Thierry), 1697. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv._


  515 Religion of a Church of Engd. Woman

      [8vo.      Lond.1705.            14]

Mary Astell (1668-1731). The Christian religion, as profess’d by a
daughter of the Church of England. London, by S. H. for R. Wilkin, 1705.
8vo.

  _BM; Newberry._


  516 Retz (Card) Memoires 5 Tomes

      [12mo.     Amst.1718             11]

Jean François Paul de Gondi, Cardinal de Retz (1614-1679). Mémoires du
cardinal de Retz, contenant ce qui s’est passé de plus remarquable en
France, pendant les premieres années du regne de Louis XIV. Première
partie. A Amsterdam, [no printer given,] 1718. 5 tom. Small 8vo.

  _BN; Harv, NYP, Ohio State._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1292 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  517 ---- Ditto Translated, 4 Vols. &
      bound in Turky Leather

      [8vo.      Lond.1723             30]

Memoirs of the Cardinal de Retz. . . . To which are added some other
pieces written by the Cardinal de Retz, or explanatory to these memoirs.
Translated from the French [by P. Davall]. With notes. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1723. 4 vol. 12mo.

  _BM; Pennsylvania, LC, Oberlin._


  518 Raymond’s Voyage through Italy

      [12mo.     Ib.1648.               6]

John Raymond. An itinerary contayning a voyage, made through Italy, in
the yeare 1646, and 1647. London, Humphrey Moseley, 1648. 12mo.

  Wing R415.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy (item No. 532 in the Leeds Sale, 1930), with Congreve’s
signature on the title page, is owned by E. S. de Beer, Esq., of London.
The unusual flourishes in the signature suggest an early period in
Congreve’s life. Mr. de Beer has shown (_Review of English Studies,
VIII_ [1932], 74-77) that Congreve borrowed for his youthful novel
_Incognita_ descriptive passages from Raymond’s _Itinerary_.


  519 Religio Medici, wth: Annotations

      [12mo.     Ib.1656.               6]

Sir Thomas Browne (1605-1682). Religio medici. The fourth edition,
corrected and amended. London, by E. Cotes for Andrew Crook, 1656. 8vo.

  Wing B5172.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Illinois, Clark._


  520 la Religieuse Amoureuse, ou le Comte
      de Clare

      [12mo.     __Col.1695.           26]

Mme. de Tenain. La religieuse interessée et amoureuse, avec l’histoire
du comte de Clare. Nouvelle galante. A Cologne, chez
* * *, 1695. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale._


  521 Rowe’s Lucan vide Lucan &c[.]

      [----      ....                  16]

See No. 343.


  522 Relation de l’Invasion de L’Espagne p
      les Maures

      [12mo.     Haye 1699.            11]

See No. 302.


  523 Roman Antiquities See Kennet

      [---- - ----                     11]

See No. 341.


  524 Rowe’s Pythagoras

      [8vo.      Lond.1707.            13]

See No. 365.


  525 Revolution de Repub. Romaine. 3 Tom. vide Vertot

      [12mo.     Paris 1719            11]

See No. 633.


  526 ---- de Portugal

      [12mo.     Ib.1711               11]

See No. 634.


  527 ---- de Suede

      [12mo.     Ib.695                11]

See No. 635.


  528 Histoire De:france En breqé
      Par P: Daniel

      [8vo.      Paris:                30]

    Entry by the second hand.

Père Gabriel Daniel (1649-1728). Abregé de l’histoire de France depuis
l’etablissement de la monarchie françois e dans les Gaules. A Paris,
chez Denys Mariette, Jean-Baptiste Delespine, Jean-Baptiste Coignard,
1723-24. 9 tom. Large 12mo.

  _BN; Library Company of Philadelphia (Ridgway Branch)._


  529 Reynard the Fox

      [4to.      Lond.1701           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

The most delectable history of Reynard the Fox. Newly corrected and
purged, from all grossness in phrase and matter. London, by T. Ilive,
for Edward Brewster, 1701. 4to, black letter.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 537 of the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  530 Grounds of the Christian Religion

      [8vo       Lond.1724           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Anthony Collins (1676-1729). A discourse of the grounds and reasons of
the Christian religion. In two parts. London, 1724. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, California._


  531 Ramsay’s Travels of Cyrus, 2 vol. unbound

      [8vo       Ib.1727             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Andrew Michael Ramsay (1686-1743). The travels of Cyrus. . . . To which
is annex’d, A discourse upon the theology and mythology of the ancients.
London, sold by T. Woodward and J. Peele, 1727. 2 vols. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Yale, Newberry._


  532 Rolli’s Remarks on Voltaire’s essay on Epic Poetry unbound

      [8vo       Ib.1728             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Paolo Antonio Rolli (1687-1765). Remarks upon M. Voltaire’s Essay on the
epick poetry of the European nations. London, Tho. Edlin, 1728. 8vo.

  _BM._


  533 Strabonis Rerum Geograph. Libri XVIII.
      ex Recensione Casauboni

      [Fol.      Paris 1620.           21]

Strabo (64/63 B.C.-A.D. 21 at least). Strabonis rerum geographicarum
libri XVII. Isaacus Casaubonus recensuit. Lutetiæ Parisiorum, typis
regiis, 1620. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Minnesota._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1272 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  534 Stow’s Survey of London

      [Fol.      Lond.1633             15]

John Stow (1525?-1605). The survey of London. . . . Begunne first by the
paines and industry of John Stow, in the yeere 1598 . . . now completely
finished by the study and labour of A. M[unday], H. D[yson] and others,
this present yeere 1633. London, Elizabeth Purslow, sold by Nicholas
Bourne, 1633. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy, with the signature “William Congreve” on the title
page, was item No. 625 of the Leeds Sale, 1930.

  STC 23345.


  535 Spenser’s (Edmd.) Works

      [Fol.      Ib.1679.              21]

Edmund Spenser (1552?-1599). The works of that famous English poet, Mr.
Edmond Spenser. London, by Henry Hills for Jonathan Edwin, 1679. fol.

  Wing S4965.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  536 ---- Works, wth: ye Glossary.
      Pub. by Mr. Hughes. &
      Adorn’d with Cuts. 6 Vols[.]

      [12mo.     Ib.1715.              19]

The works of Mr. Edmund Spenser. . . . With a glossary explaining the
old and obscure words. Publish’d by Mr. Hughes. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1715. 6 vol. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 614 in the Leeds Sale, 1930, but
listed as 8vo.


  537 Stobæi Eclogarum Libri 2.Gr. Lat. cum
      Interp. Canteri. apd _Plantin_

      [Fol.      Antv.1575             21]

Johannes Stobaeus (5th century). Joannis Stobæi eclogarum libri duo
. . . interprete Gulielmo Cantero. Antverpiæ, ex officinâ Christophori
Plantini, 1575. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Johns Hopkins, Newberry._


  538 ---- Sententiæ ex Thesauris Græ-
      -corum delectæ. in Lat. Sermo
      -nem traductæ a Gesnero

      [Fol.      Tigur 1543            21]

Sententiæ ex thesauris Græcorum delectæ . . . & in sermones sive locos
communes digestae, nunc primum à Conrado Gesnero. Tiguri, excudebat
Christoph. Froschoverus, 1543. fol.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  539 Scapulæ Lexicon Gr. Lat. Cum Meursii
      Glossario contracto

      [Fol.      Lugd.1663             15]

Joannes Scapula (fl. 1579). Joan. Scapulæ lexicon Græco-Latinum . . .
glossarium contractum. 2 pt. Lugduni, sumptibus Joannis Antonii
Huguetan, & Maroi Antonii Ravaud, 1663. fol.

  _BM; Amherst, LC._


  540 Suidæ Gr. Lat. Lexicon 2 Vol.
      Curâ Æmilii Porti

      [Fol.      Col.Allob 1619.       21]

Suidas, nunc primum integer Latinitate donatus . . . opera & studio
Æmilii Porti. [Gr. and Lat.] Coloniæ Allobrogum, apud Petrum de la
Rouiere, 1619. 2 tom. fol. [Vol. II: Genevæ, 1630.]

  _BM; Harv, Illinois._


  541 SHAKESPEARE’s Works old Edit[.]

      [Fol.      ------                21]

William Shakespeare (1564--1616). Mr. William Shakespeares comedies,
histories, & tragedies. Published according to the true originall
copies. London, printed by Isaac Jaggard, and Ed. Blount, 1623. fol.

  STC 22273.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy of Shakespeare’s first folio, with the signature “Will:
Congreve” on the contents page (and “Charles Killigrew” on the fly
leaf), is now in the Library of the University of Leeds, on loan from
the Duke of Leeds.


  542 ---- Ditto 6 Vols. Colla-
      =ted & corrected by
      _Mr. POPE. L. Papr[.]_

      [4to.      London 1725           29]

The works of Shakespear. In six volumes. Collated and corrected by the
former editions, by Mr. Pope. London, J. Tonson, 1725 (Vol. I), 1723
(Vols. II-VI). 6 vol. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 590 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.
Congreve’s name appears in the printed list of subscribers.


  543 Ditto small paper in 12 vols by Mr Pope

      [....      London 1723         ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Apparently this was a set bound specially for Congreve in twelve volumes
instead of the regular six. A copy of this edition, described as “6
vols. in 12,” was listed under No. 1277 in the Hornby Castle Sale, 1930.


  544 ---- Ditto 9 Vols. wth Cuts
      _L. Paper_

      [8vo.      1709.                 19]

The works of Mr. William Shakespear; in nine volumes. Adorn’d with cuts.
Revis’d and corrected, with an account of the life and writings of the
author. By N. Rowe, Esq. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1709. 8vo.

  _Victoria and Albert; Folger, Pennsylvania._

A copy of this edition was item No. 587 in the Leeds Sale, 1930, where
it was described as “6 vol. in 9, first octavo edition, large paper
copy.” This was one of perhaps six copies, all on large paper, bound in
nine instead of six volumes (see H. L. Ford, _Shakespeare, 1700-1740_,
p. 9). The copy in the Leeds Sale, now in the Folger Shakespeare
Library, was almost certainly once in Congreve’s library.


  545 ---- Collection of Poems in
      Turky Leather

      [12mo      ---                   27]

A collection of poems, viz. I. Venus and Adonis. II. The rape of
Lucrece. III. The passionate pilgrim. IV. Sonnets to sundry notes of
musick. London, for Bernard Lintott [1709]. 8vo (12mo size).

  _BM; Yale, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  546 ---- 3d. Vol vizt. Merry Wives
      of Windsor &c[.]

      [12mo.     ....                  30]

Since no edition of Shakespeare printed before Congreve’s death had a
third volume beginning with the _Merry Wives of Windsor_, No. 546 is
apparently the same as No. 408, a specially bound duodecimo volume
beginning with the _Merry Wives_. But it is still not clear why a single
specially bound volume should be called the “3d.”


  547 Sandy’s Ovid

      [Fol       ---                   15]

See No. 428.


  548 Salmon’s Dispensatory, see Dispensatory

      [----      ....                   4]

See No. 216.


  549 Stanhope’s Charron vide Charron

      [----      ....                  33]

See No. 117.


  550 Smith’s Cookery vide Court Cookery

      [----      ....                  32]

See No. 109.


  551 Shirley’s Plays: _or the Valiant Welchman_.
      And also Carodoc ye Great

      [4to.      _ 1663                 8]

This possibly consisted of _Two playes_, a quarto of 1657 (see Wing
S3490, citing the Huth Catalogue), and _The Valiant Welchman_. Or, _The
True Chronicle History of the Life and Valiant Deeds of Carodoc the
Great_. . . . Written by R. A. Gent. London, for William Gilbertson,
1663. 4to.

  Wing A3698.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  552 ---- Six New Plays

      [8vo.      __ 1653.               8]

James Shirley (1596-1666). Six new playes. . . . Never printed before.
London, for Humphrey Robinson and Humphrey Moseley, 1653. 8vo.

  Wing S3486.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  553 Swift’s (Jonathan) Miscellanies in
       Prose & Verse
      _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Lond.1711.            28]

Jonathan Swift (1667-1745) [and Alexander Pope (1688-1744)].
Miscellanies in prose and verse. London, for John Morphew, 1711. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 638 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  554 ---- Tale of a Tub. with ye
      Figures. _5th Edit. L. Papr._

      [8vo.      Ib.1710.              19]

Jonathan Swift (1667-1745). A tale of a tub. Written for the universal
improvement of mankind. . . . The fifth edition. London, for John Nutt,
1710. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry, Hunt._


  555 Stanyan’s Grecian History _Vol 1._
      Adorn’d wth: Cuts _L. Papr._

      [8vo.      Ib.1707.              13]

Temple Stanyan (d. 1752). The Grecian history. . . . Adorn’d with cuts.
London, for Jacob Tonson, 1707. 8vo.

The second volume appeared in 1738, nine years after Congreve’s death.

  _BM._


  556 ---- Account of Switzerland
      _Large Paper_

      [8vo.      Ib.1714.              13]

An account of Switzerland. Written in the year 1714. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1714. 8vo.

  _BM; LC, Texas, Newberry._


  557 Syphilis or a Poetical History of the
      French Disease. Engd.
      by N. Tate

      [8vo.      Ib.1686.              20]

Girolamo Fracastoro (1483-1533). Syphilis: or, A poetical history of the
French disease . . . attempted in English by N[ahum] Tate. London, for
Jacob Tonson, 1686. 8vo.

  Wing F2049.

  _BM; Yale, College of Physicians (Philadelphia), Lane (Stanford)._


  558 Suckling’s (Sir Jno.) Fragmenta aurea
      Collection of his Peices &c[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1648               20]

Sir John Suckling (1609-1642). Fragmenta aurea. A collection of all the
incomparable peeces written by Sir John Suckling and published by a
friend to perpetuate his memory. Printed by his owne copies. London, for
Humphrey Moseley, 1648. 8vo.

  Wing S6127.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 630 (also a part of item No. 631) in
the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  559 Scaligeri (Jul. Cæs.) Poetices Libri VII

      [8vo       ___1594.               7]

Julius Cæsar Scaliger (1484-1558). Poetices libri septem. [Heidelberg],
apud Petrum Santandreanum, 1594. 8vo.

  _BN; Harv, Peabody Institute (Baltimore)._


  560 Sollii _Sidonii_ Apollinaris Opera, cum
      Notis P. Colvii

      [8vo.      Paris 1598             7]

Caius Sollius Apollinaris Sidonius (430?-487?). Opera. . . . Petri Colvi
Brugensis in Sidonium notas edi curavit. Parisiis, apud Ambrosium
Drouart, 1598. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Union Theological Seminary (New York)._


  561 Sydenham (Tho.) Opera Universa

      [8vo.      Lond.1705              4]

Thomas Sydenham (1624-1689). Opera universa. Londini, typis
J. Heptinstall, impensis Walteri Kettilby, 1705. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale._


  562 ---- English Works, Corrected
      by _Jno. Pechey_

      [8vo.      Ib.1705.               4]

The whole works of that excellent practical physician, Dr. Thomas
Sydenham. . . . The fourth edition . . . by John Pechey, M.D. London,
for R. Wellington, 1705. 8vo.

  _Royal College of Physicians (London); U.S. Surgeon General’s
  Office, Goucher College._


  563 Sanctorius’s Medicina Statica, or
      Aphorisms. Translated
      by J. Quincy

      [8vo.      Ib.1712.               4]

Sanctorius (1561-1636). Medicina statica: being the aphorisms of
Sanctorius, translated into English. . . . By J. Quincy. London, for
William Newton, 1712. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale, Library Company of Philadelphia (Ridgway Branch)._


  564 Sol Britannicus, Regi consecratus
      a Domino Ludovico de
      Gand.

      [8vo.      Ib.1641.               4]

Louis de Gand. Sol Britannicus regi consecratus. Londini, excudebat
J. Beale & S. Buckley, 1641. 8vo.

  Wing G194.

  _BM; Chicago, Clark._


  565 St Real Oeuvres Vide L’Abbe de St. Real
      5 Tom[.]

      [....      ---                   30]

See No. 18.


  566 Shadwell’s Dramatick Works 4 Vols.

      [12mo.     London 1720           33]

Thomas Shadwell (1642?-1692). The dramatick works of Thomas Shadwell,
Esq. London, for J. Knapton and J. Tonson, 1720. 4 vol. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 584 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  567 Steele’s (Sir Richd.) Rom.Eccles. History

      [8vo.      Ib.1715.               8]

Sir Richard Steele (1672-1729). The Romish ecclesiastical history of
late years. London, for J. Roberts, 1714. 8vo.

  _BM; Yale, LC, Michigan, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of a 1715 edition has not been found.


  568 ---- Poetical Miscellanies, bound
      in Turkey Leather

      [8vo.      Ib.1714.              20]

Poetical miscellanies, consisting of original poems and translations. By
the best hands. Publish’d by Mr. Steele. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1714.
8vo.

Case 279.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

Steele dedicated this _Miscellany_ to Congreve.


  569 Scarron Romant Comique

      [8vo.      Par.1655.              3]

Paul Scarron (1616-1660). Le romant comique. A Leiden, chez Jean Sambix,
1655. 12mo.

  _Royal Library (The Hague)._

A copy of a Paris edition, 1655, has not been found.


  570 ---- Ditto

      [12mo.     Amst.1695.            26]

Le romant comique. 3 pt. A Amsterdam, chez Pierre Mortier, 1695. 12mo.

See also No. 569.

  _BM; LC._


  571 ---- Nouvelles Oeuvres Tragi-comiques
      2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Paris 1665            26]

Les nouvelles oeuvres tragi-comiques. A Paris, chez Jean Ribou, 1665-79
(or, chez Jean Baptiste Loyson, 1665). 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv._


  572 ----’s Comical Works Translated by
      Mr _Tho. Browne_

      [8vo.      Lond.1712.            33]

The whole comical works of Mon. Scarron. . . . Translated by Mr. Tho.
Brown . . . and others. The third edition, revised and corrected.
London, for J. Nicholson, J. and B. Sprint, R. Parker, and Benj. Tooke,
1712. 8vo.

  _Bodleian; Yale, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  573 ----’s City Romance _made Eng._

      [8vo.      Ib.1671.              33]

Antoine Furetière (1619-1688). Scarron’s city romance, made English.
London, T. N. for H. Herringman, 1671. 8vo.

  Wing S830.

  _BM; Harv, Newberry, Hunt._

This work, actually a translation of Furetière’s _Roman Bourgeois_, was
omitted from _The Whole Comical Works of Mons. Scarron_ translated by
Tho. Brown, with the following comment in the Preface to the second
volume: “_Some Persons may object, and ask, Why is not the_ City Romance
here? To which we answer, It was none of his, but one father’d upon him,
to make it sell.”


  574 Shirley’s (James) _Six New Plays_

      [8vo.      Ib.1653.               8]

See No. 552.


  575 Salignac (Monsr.) Evêque de Cambrai, Lettres
      sur divers Sujets

      [8vo.      Paris 1718.           18]

François de Salignac de la Mothe Fénelon, Archbishop of Cambray
(1651-1715). Lettres sur divers sujets concernant la religion et la
métaphysique. A Paris, chez Jacques Estienne, 1718. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Michigan._


  576 ---- Dialogues sur l’Eloquence

      [8vo.      Ib.1718.              18]

Dialogues sur l’éloquence en general, et sur celle de la chaire en
particulier. A Paris, chez Florentin Delaulne (or, Jacques Estienne),
1718. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Clark._


  577 ---- Dialogues des Morts Ancient
      et Modernes, 2 Tom[.]

      [8vo.      Ib.1718.              18]

Dialogues des morts anciens et modernes, avec quelque fables. Composez
pour l’education d’un prince. A Paris, chez Florentin Delaulne (or,
J. Estienne), 1718. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _Southampton University, BN; Harv, LC._


  578 ---- Avantures de Telemaque, 2 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1718.              18]

Paris, F. Delaulne, 1717. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BN; Harv, NYP, Clark._

No copy of a 1718 Paris edition in 12mo has been located.


  579 Scudery (Monsr.) Alaric ou Rome vaincu

      [12mo.     Ib.1655.               6]

Georges de Scudéry (1601-1667). Alaric, ou Rome vaincuë Poëme héroïque.
A Paris, chez Augustin Courbé, 1655. 12mo.

  _BN; Yale, Folg, Newberry._

A copy of this edition was item No. 574 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  580 la Source des Malheurs d’Angleterre

      [24to      Col.1689.              5]

La source des malheurs d’Angleterre, et de tous les maux, dont ce
roiaume a été affligé depuis le regne de Jacques I. & qui ont causé la
perte de Charles I. & la desertion de Jacques II. A Cologne, chez Pierre
Marteau, 1689. Small 12mo.

  _Leeds, Biblioteca Marucelliana (Florence)._


  581 Sannazarii Opera Latina

      [....      Amst.1689.             5]

Jacopo Sannazaro (1458-1530). Actii synceri Sannazarii. . . . Opera
Latina omnia. Amstelaedami, apud Henricum Wetstenium, 1689. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Michigan._


  582 Sylvester’s Parliament of Vertues Royal

      [....      ....                   6]

Joshua Sylvester, the Poet (1563-1618). The parliament of vertues royal.
[London, H. Lownes, 1614.] 8vo.

  STC 23581.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  583 Sallustii Opera in Usum Delph

      [8vo.      Lond.1715.             7]

Gaius Sallustius Crispus (86-_c._ 34 B.C.). London, typographica
M. Matthews, 1715. 8vo.

  _Yale._


  584 ---- quae exstant. - - apd. Tonson
      _Foliis deauratis_

      [12mo.     Ib.1713.              24]

Caii Sallustii Crispi quæ extant. [ed. M. Maittaire.] Londini, ex
officinâ Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1713. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC._


  585 ---- Eadem -- -- apud Elzevir

      [24to.     Lugd.Bat.1634.         5]

C. Sallustius Crispus, cum veterum historicorum fragmentis. [Ed. M. Z.
Boxhorn.] Lugduni Batavorum, ex officina Elzeviriana, 1634. 24to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Texas, Newberry._


  586 ---- Eadem cum Catullo Tibullo &c[.]

      [24to.     Amsterd.1684           5]

C. Sallustius Crispus cum veterum historicorum fragmentis, ed. nov.
Amstelaedami, Janssonius, 1684. 24to.

  _Pennsylvania._


  587 Senecæ Epistolæ ex Recensione Lipsii.
      apud Elzevir

      [24to.     Lug.Bat.1639.          5]

Lucius Annaeus Seneca (_c._ 4 B.C.-65 A.D.). L. Annæi Senecæ philosophi.
Tomus secunda. Inquo epistolæ, & quæstiones naturales. Lugdun. Batavor.,
ex officina Elseviriana, 1639. 24to.

  _Glasgow, Royal Library (The Hague); Harv, NYP, Princeton,
  University of Western Ontario._


  588 Secret History of Europe - - - - -

      [8vo.      Lond 1712.             8]

See No. 310.


  589 Scribonius Largus

      [4to       Patavii 1655           1]

    Entry by the second hand.

Scribonius Largus (_c._ A.D. 1-50). Scriboni largi compositiones medicæ.
Patavii, typis Pauli Frambotti bibliopolæ, 1655. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, U.S. Surgeon General’s Office, Virginia, Northwestern._


  590 Southerne’s Play, called Money the Mistress

      [....      Lond.1726           ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Thomas Southern (1660-1746). Money the mistress. A play. London, for
J. Tonson, 1726. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  591 Shakespear’s Double falshood, by Theobalds

      [....      Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Lewis Theobald (1688-1744). Double falsehood; or The distrest lovers.
A play. . . . Written originally by W. Shakespeare; and now revised and
adapted to the stage by Mr. Theobald. London, by J. Watts, 1728. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  592 Terentii Comœdiæ . . . _Ex Typogr. Regiâ_

      [Fol.      Par.1642.             16]

Publius Terentius Afer (195?-159 B.C.). Publii Terentii comoediae.
Parisiis, e typographia regia, 1642. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Union College (Schenectady, N.Y.), Newberry._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 675 in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


  593 ---- Comœdiæ cum Variis Lectionibus.
      _Charta Majori_

      [4to.      Cantabr 1701.         17]

Publii Terentii Afri Comoediæ ad optimorum exemplarium fidem recensitae.
Accesserunt variæ lectiones. Cantabrigiæ, typis academicis, impensis
Jacobi Tonson, 1701. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Washington and Lee, Illinois._


  594 ---- Comœdiæ. - - - - apd. Tonson
      _Foliis deauratis_

      [12mo.     Lond.1713             24]

Publii Terentii Carthaginiensis Afri Comoediæ sex. Londini, ex officinâ
Jacobi Tonson, & J. Watts, 1713. 12mo.

  _BM; Illinois._


  595 ---- Comedies _Eng. by Sevl. Hands_

      [8vo.      Ib.1694.              20]

Terence’s Comedies: made English. With his life; and some remarks at the
end. By several hands. London, for A. Swall and T. Childe, 1694. 8vo.

  Wing T749.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

Congreve’s copy, with the signature “Will: Congreve” on the title page,
is in the Library of the University of Tennessee.


  596 Thucydide Histoire, de la Traduction
      du Sieur D’Ablancourt

      [Fol.      Paris 1662            21]

Thucydides (_c._ 460-400 B.C.). L’histoire de Thucydide, de la guerre du
Poloponese; continuée par Xenophon. De la traduction de N. Perrot, Sr.
d’Ablancourt. A Paris, chez Augustin Courbé, 1662. fol.

  _BM; Ohio State._


  597 Tillotson’s (ABP) Works Published by
      Himself. 4th. Edit.

      [Fol.      Lond.1704.            21]

John Tillotson, Archbishop of Canterbury (1630-1694). The works . . .
containing fifty-four sermons and discourses. . . . Being all that were
published by his grace himself. . . . The fourth edition. London, for
B. Aylmer and W. Rogers, 1704. fol.

  _Cambridge._


  598 ---- Sermons Vol. 1. Pub.
      in his Life-Time

      [8vo       Ib.1694.              32]

Six sermons. London, for B. Aylmer and W. Rogers, 1694. 8vo.

  Wing T1268.

  _BM; Harv._

See also Wing T1254, 1260, and 1260B for other sermons by Tillotson
appearing in 1694 but less likely to have been represented by Congreve’s
No. 598.


  599 ---- Sermons Posthumous
      _14 Vols._ Pub. by his
      Chaplain Ra. Barker

      [8vo.      Ib.1704 &c.           32]

[Sermons] . . . published from the originals by Ralph Baker. London, for
R. Chiswell, 1700-1704. 14 vol. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, Union Theological Seminary._


  600 Teatro delle Favole rapprasentative.
      Da Flaminio Scala

      [4to.      Ven.1611              14]

Flaminio Scala (fl. 1620). Il teatro delle favole rappresentative. In
Venetia, appresso Gio: Battista Pulciani, 1611. 4to.

  _BM; NYP, LC (photostat)._


  601 Troili et Cresaidæ Amorum Libri
      duo priores, Anglico-latini

      [4to.      Oxen 1635             20]

Geoffrey Chaucer (1340?-1400). Amorum Troili et Creseidæ libri duo
priores Anglico-Latini. Oxoniæ, excudebat Johannes Lichfield, 1635. 4to.

  STC 5097.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._

[Illustration: Congreve’s copy of Terence, now in the Library of the
University of Tennessee, showing how the signature was once
obliterated.]


  602 Treatise Theological & Political;
      For ye Liberty of Philoso
      -phizing or making use of
      Natural Reason

      [8vo.      Lond.1689             14]

A treatise partly theological, and partly political, containing some few
discourses, to prove that the liberty of philosophizing . . . may be
allow’d. . . . Translated out of Latin [from Spinoza]. London, printed
in the year, 1689. 8vo.

  Wing S4985.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Hunt._


  603 Temple’s (Sir Wm.) Miscellanea 3d. Part

      [8vo.      Ib.1701.              33]

Sir William Temple (1628-1699). Miscellanea. The third part. Containing
I. An essay on popular discontents. II. An essay upon health and long
life. III. A defense of the essay upon ancient and modern learning. With
some other pieces. . . . Published by Jonathan Swift, A. M. Prebendary
of St. Patrick’s, Dublin. London, for Benjamin Tooke, 1701. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, Newberry, Hunt._


  604 Turkish Tales

      [12mo.     Ib.1708.              30]

Chec Zade (Shaikzádah). Turkish tales; consisting of several
extraordinary adventures: with the history of the Sultaness of Persia,
and the visiers. Written originally in the Turkish language . . . for
the use of Amurath II. And now done into English. London, for Jacob
Tonson, 1708. 12mo.

  _Yale, Clark._


  605 Tartarian Tales

      [12mo.     Ib.1716.              30]

T[homas]-S[imon] G[ueulette] (1683-1766). A thousand and one quarters of
hours; being Tartarian tales. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1716. 12mo.

  _BM; Newberry._


  606 Tacite de la Traduction du Sieur
      D’_Ablancourt_
      2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Amsterd 1691.         11]

Cornelius Tacitus (_c._ A.D. 55-_after_ 115). Les oeuvres de Tacite, de
la traduction de N. Perrot, Sieur d’Ablancourt. A Amsterdam, chez Andre
De Hoogenhuysen, 1691. 2 tom. small 8vo.

  _BM._


  607 Theophraste Caracteres avec les Moeurs
      de ce Siecle Traduits
      du Grec p. _Mr. Bruyere_

      [12mo.     Brux.1693.            12]

Par Mr. de La Bruiere. Septiéme edition, corrigée & augmentée.
A Bruxelles, chez Jean Leonard, 1693. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._


  608 ---- Ditto made English by
      _Mr Budgell_

      [12mo.     London 1714.           8]

The moral characters of Theophrastus. Translated from the Greek, by
Eustace Budgell, Esq. London, for Jacob Tonson, 1714. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, LC, Texas._


  609 Tasso Gierusalemme Liberata 2 Tom[.]

      [24to.     Amst.1678.             5]

See No. 267.


  610 Thompson’s Translation of Jeffrey of
      Monmouth’s British History.

      [8vo.      Lond.1718             13]

See No. 327.


  611 Tale of a Tub. See Dr Swift’s

      [....      -----                 29]

See No. 554.


  612 Trauels Gulliver 2 voll: figuerd:

      [8{vo}.     Lon:                  29]

    Entry by the second hand.

Jonathan Swift (1667-1745). Travels into several remote nations of the
world. In four parts. By Lemuel Gulliver, first a surgeon, and then a
captain of several ships. London, for B. Motte, 1726. 2 vol. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Texas, Hunt._

Since this entry by the second hand could have been as late as 1728,
Congreve’s copy of _Gulliver’s Travels_ could have been from any one of
the octavo editions or issues of 1726, 1727, 1728, but it was probably
from the first edition.


  613 Virgilii Opera cum Notis Ruæi in Usum
      _Delphini_

      [4to.      Paris 1682            22]

Publius Virgilius Maro (70-19 B.C.). P. Virgilii Maronis opera
interpretatione et notis illustravit Carolus Ruæus . . . ad usum . . .
Delphini. Parisiis, apud Simonem Benard, 1682. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Chicago._


  614 ---- Opera - - - _Charta Majori_

      [4to.      Cantabr 1701          17]

Publii Virgilii Maronis Bucolica, Georgica, et Æneis. L. P. Cantabrigiæ,
typis academicis, impensis Jacobi Tonson, 1701. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, Princeton, Newberry._


  615 Voiture Oeuvres

      [4to.      Paris 1650             2]

Vincent de Voiture (1597-1648). Les oeuvres. A Paris, chez Augustin
Courbé, 1650. 4to.

  _Cambridge; LC._


  616 Voyage d’Olearius en Moscovie, Tartarie
      et Perse. Avec celuy de J. A.
      de Mandelslo aux Indes Orient.
      2 Vol[.]

      [4to.      Ib.1666               28]

Adam Olearius (1600?-1671). Relation du voyage d’Adam Olearius en
Moscovie, Tartarie, et Perse . . . seconde partie contenant le voyage de
Jean Albert de Mandelslo aux Indes orientales. A Paris, chez Jean Du
Puis, 1666. 2 tom. 4to.

  _BM; Michigan._

For the English translation see No. 4.


  617 ---- du Tour du Monde de _Gemelli Careri_
      6 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1719.               3]

Giovanni Francesco Gemelli-Careri (_c._ 1651-_c._ 1725). Voyage du tour
du monde, traduit de l’Italien. A Paris, chez Etienne Ganeau, 1719. 6
tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Newberry._


  618 ---- du Sieur _Paul Lucas_ dans la Grece,
      l’Asie Min. et l’Afrique _2 Tom_[.]

      [12mo      Amst.1714              3]

Paul Lucas (1664-1737). Voyage . . . dans la Grece, l’Asie Mineure, la
Macédoine et l’Afrique. A Amsterdam, aux dépens de la compagnie, 1714. 2
tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, Swarthmore, LC, Ohio Wesleyan._


  619 ---- du _Ditto_ au Levant 2 Tom.

      [12mo      Haye 1709              3]

Voyage . . . au Levant. Où y trouvera entr’autre une description de la
Haute Egypte, suivant la cours du Nil, depuis le Caire jusques aux
Cataractes. A La Haye, chez Guillaume de Voys, 1709. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._


  620 ---- du _Ditto_ dans la Turquie &c. 3 Tom[.]

      [12mo      Roven 1719             3]

Troisième voyage . . . fait en 1714 . . . dans la Turquie, l’Asie, la
Sourie, la Palestine, la Haute et la Basse Egypte, etc. A Rouen, chez
Robert Machuel, 1719. 3 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; NYP, Catholic University (Washington, D.C.)._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1218 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  621 ---- du Monsr. _Du Quesne_ aux Indes
      Orientales 3 Tom.

      [12mo.     Ib.1721.               3]

Abraham Du Quesne, the Younger (fl. 1690). Journal d’un voyage fait aux
Indes orientales. A Rouen, chez Jean Batiste Machuel le Jeune, 1721. 3
tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Newberry._


  622 Virgilii Appendix, cum Supplemento multorum
      antehac nunquam excusorum
      Poematum Veterum Poetarum

      [8vo.      Lugd.1572              7]

Publii Virgilii Maronis appendix, cum supplemento multorum antehac
nunquam excusorum poematum veterum poetarum. Josephi Scaligeri in eandem
appendicem commentarii & castigationes. Lugduni, apud Guliel. Rovillium,
1572. 8vo.

  _BM; Library Company of Philadelphia, Chicago._


  623 ---- Thesaurus in _Locos Communes digestus_

      [12mo.     Paris 1683.           24]

Thesaurus P. Virgilii Maronis in communes locos olim digestus. Parisiis,
apud viduam Claudii Thiboust, et Petrum Esclassan, 1683. 12mo.

  _Royal Library (The Hague)._


  624 ---- Opera, _foliis deauratis_ - - apd. Tonson

      [12mo.     Lond.1715             24]

P. Virgilii Maronis opera. [Ed. Michael Maittaire.] Londini, ex officinâ
Jacobi Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1715. 12mo.

  _BM; Boston Public, Princeton, Newberry, Stanford._


  625 ---- Eadem, ex Recensione _Heinsiana_

      [12mo      Ultraj.1704.          24]

P. Virgilii Maronis opera. Nic. Heins . . . recensuit. Ultrajecti, apud
Guil. van de Water, 1704. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Princeton, Illinois._


  626 ---- Eadem, ex Officina Elzeviriana

      [24to.     Lugd.Bat.1636         24]

Entry crossed through.

P. Virgilii Maronis opera; nunc emendatiora. Lugd. Batavor., ex officina
Elzeviriana, 1636. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Texas, Hunt._

A copy of this edition bears the inscription, “Ex libris Gul: Congreve.”
See J. Isaacs in _TLS_ for September 2, 1949.


  627 Velleii Paterculi Historiæ Rom. quæ supersunt.
      _Foliis deauratis_, apd. Tonson

      [12mo.     Lond.1713             24]

Gaius Velleius Paterculus (_c._ 19 B.C.-after A.D. 31). M. Velleii
Paterculi historiæ Romanæ quæ supersunt. Londini, ex officinâ Jacobi
Tonson, & Johannis Watts, 1713. 12mo.

  _BM; LC._


  628 Violenta or ye Rewards of Vertue. Turn’d
      from Boccace into Verse

      [8vo.      Ib.1704.               8]

[Mary (Griffith) Pix (1666-1720?)]. Violenta, or The rewards of virtue:
turn’d from Boccace into verse. London, for John Nutt, 1704. 8vo.

  _BM; Boston Public._


  629 Vie de Zizimè Fils de Mahomet 2.

      [8vo.      Paris 1724            33]

Claude Labottière (fl. 1724). La vie et les avantures de Zizime, fils de
Mahomet II. Empereur des Turcs. Avec un discours préliminaire, pour
servir à l’histoire des Turcs. A Paris, chez Claude Labottiere, 1724.
12mo.

  _BN; LC._


  630 ---- de Socrate p Mr. _Charpentier_

      [8vo.      Amst.1699             33]

Xenophon (_c._ 430-_c._ 354 B.C.). La vie de Socrate. [Translated by
M. François Charpentier of the French Academy. The third edition.]
A Amsterdam, aux dépens d’Etienne Roger, 1699. 8vo.

  _BM; NYP, Virginia, Southern California._


  631 ---- de Pythagore, ses Symboles, ses Vers
      dorez &c. 2 Tom p _Mr. Dacier_

      [12mo.     Par.1706              12]

André Dacier (1651-1722). La vie de Pythagore, ses symboles, ses vers
dorez, & la vie d’Hierocles. A Paris, chez Rigaud, 1706. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Yale, Library Company of Philadelphia (Ridgway Branch)._

For the English translation see No. 365.


  632 ---- de Lazarillo de Tormes avec Fig[.]

      [12mo.     Bruss.1698            26]

La vie et avantures de Lazarille de Tormes. Escrites par lui meme.
Traduction nouvelle. . . . Embellie de plusieurs figures. A Brusselles,
chez George de Backer, 1698. 12mo.

  _Bodleian; LC._


  633 Vertot (L’Abbé de) Histoire des Revolutions
      de la Repub. Rom. 3 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Par.1719.             11]

René Aubert de Vertot D’Aubeuf (1655-1735). Histoire des révolutions
arrivées dans le gouvernement de la République Romaine. A Paris, chez
François Barois, 1719. 3 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._


  634 ---- Hist. des Revolutions de
      Portugal

      [12mo.     Ib.1711.              11]

A Paris, chez Michel Brunet, 1711. 12mo.

  _Bodleian; LC._


  635 ---- Hist des Revolutions de
      Sude

      [12mo.     Ib.1695.              11]

Histoire des revolutions de Suede. Où l’on voit les changemens qui sont
arrives. A Paris, chez Michel Brunet, 1695. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv._


  636 ---- Hist. des Chevaliers de Malte 5 vols

    Entry by the third hand.

Histoire des chevaliers . . . de Malthe. A Paris, chez Rollin, Quillau
Pere & Fils, [et] Desaint, 1726. 5 tom. 12mo.

  _BM._


  637 ---- Vallemont (Mr de) Elemens de L’Histoire
      2 Tomes

      [12mo.     Ib.1699.              11]

Abbe Pierre Le Lorrain de Vallemont (1649-1721). Les elemens de
l’histoire, ou Ce qu’il faut savoir de chronologie, de geographie, de
blazon, de l’histoire universelle, des monarchies anciennes, & des
monarchies nouvelles; avant que de lire l’histoire particuliere.
A Paris, chez Jean Anisson, 1696. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BN._

A copy of a 1699 edition has not been found.


  638 Voyage to Surat by Ovington Anno 1689.

      [8vo.      Lond.1696             28]

See No. 440.


  639 Freziers Voyage to the South Sea
      English.

      [4to.      Lon:1717              29]

    Entry by the second hand.

Amédée François Frezier (1682-1773). A voyage to the South-Sea, and
along the coasts of Chili and Peru, in the years 1712, 1713, and 1714.
[Trans. from the French.] London, for Jonah Bowyer, 1717. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 250 in the Leeds Sale, 1930.


  640 Ysbrants Ides to China

      [4to.      Lon.1705              29]

    Entry by the second hand.

Everard-Isbrantz Ides (1660?-1700). Three years travels from Moscow
over-land to China: thro’ great Ustiga, Siriania, Permia, Sibiria,
Daour, Great Tartary, &c. to Peking. Containing an exact . . .
description of . . . those countries, and the customs of the . . .
inhabitants . . . done into English. London, for W. Freeman, J. Walthoe,
T. Newborough, J. Nicholson, and R. Parker, 1706. 4to.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

The date on the engraved title page is sometimes 1705, sometimes 1704.


  641 Mandevile

      [4to.      Lon.1725.             29]

    Entry by the second hand.

The voiage and travaile of Sir John Maundevile, Kt. Which treateth of
the way to Hierusalem; and of marvayles of Inde, with other ilands and
countryes. Now publish’d entire from the original MS. in the Cotton
Library. London, for J. Woodman, and D. Lyon, and C. Davis, 1725. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 391 in the Leeds Sale, 1930,
described as “Large Paper (9 in. by 5½ in.).”


  642 Funnell round ye world

      [8vo.      Lon 1707              29]

    Entry by the second hand.

William Funnell. A voyage round the world. Containing an account of
Captain Dampier’s expedition into the South-Seas in the ship _St.
George_, in the years 1703 and 1704. London, by W. Botham, for James
Knapton, 1707. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  643 Sr. Anthony Shirleys Voyages. Blue paper

      [8vo.      Lon.1613              29]

    Entry by the second hand.

Sir Anthony Sherley (1565-1635?). Sir Antony Sherley his relation of his
travels into Persia. London, for Nathaniell Butter and Joseph Bagset,
1613. 4to.

  STC 22424.

  _BM; Yale, NYP, Folg, LC, Hunt._


  644 Sally fleet voyage and Journal vid. Dunton Blue pap[.]

      [4to.      Lon.1637              29]

    Entry by the second hand.

See No. 224.


  645 Voyage De. Siam. Des. Jesuites 2 voll[.]

      [12mo.     Amster-1688            3]

    Entry by the second hand.

[Guy Tachard (1651-1712)]. Voyage de Siam des peres Jesuites, envoyés
par le roy, aux Indes à la Chine. A Amsterdam, chez Pierre Mortier,
1688-1689. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP (v. 1), LC, Hunt._


  646 Willes History of trayale

      [4to.      Lon.1577.              8]

    Entry by the second hand.

Petrus Martyr Anglerius (d. 1526). The history of trauayle in the West
and East Indies . . . done into Englyshe by Richarde Eden . . .
augmented, and finished by Richarde Willes. London, Richarde Jugge,
1577. 4to.

  STC 649.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Folg, LC, Newberry, Hunt._


  647 Chaumonts Voyage to Siam

      [16mo.     Lon.1685.              6]

    Entry by the second hand.

Monsieur de Chaumont, Ambassador to Siam (1640-1710). A relation of the
voyage to Siam . . . in the year, 1685. London, by T. B. for J. Robinson
and A. Churchil, sold by S. Crouch, 1688. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Newberry, Clark._

A copy of a 1685 edition has not been found. Perhaps Congreve’s
amanuensis confused the date in the title with that of the imprint.


  648 Voltaire, Henriade

      [8vo.      Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Voltaire [Francois Marie Arouet] (1694-1778). La Henriade de Mr. de
Voltaire. Seconde edition revûe, corrigée, & augmentée de remarques
critiques sur cet ouvrage. A Londres, chez Woodman & Lyon, 1728. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, LC, Clark._

A variant octavo edition, 1728, may be consulted at _Yale_ or _NYP_.


  649 ---- Id.

      [4to       Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

La Henriade de Mr. de Voltaire. A Londres, 1728. 4to.

  _BM; Yale, LC, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 678 (also 679) in the Leeds Sale,
1930. The printed list of subscribers, including Congreve’s name,
appears in the copies at _Newberry_ and _Huntington_ but not in copies
at _BM_, _Yale_, and _LC_. For the list of subscribers preserved at the
_Bibliothèque de l’Arsenal_ in Paris, see J. Isaacs in _TLS_ for
September 2, 1949.


  650 ---- Essay on the Civil wars of France

      [8vo       Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

An essay upon the civil wars of France. . . . And also upon the epic
poetry of the European nations, from Homer down to Milton. London, for
N. Prevost and Comp., 1728. 8vo.

  _BM; Folg._


  651 Wycherley’s Miscellany Poems

      [Fol.      Lond 1704             21]

William Wycherley (1640?-1716). Miscellany poems: as satyrs, epistles,
love-verses, songs, sonnets, &c. London, for C. Brome, J. Taylor, and
B. Tooke, 1704. fol.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Newberry, Hunt._

A copy of this edition was item No. 707 (and also No. 708) in the Leeds
Sale, 1930.


  652 Willis (Tho.) Opera omnia, Studio G. Blasii M.D.

      [4to       Amst.1682              2]

Thomas Willis (1621-1675). Opera omnia. . . . Studio & opera Gerardi
Blasii. Amstelædami, apud Henricum Wetstenium, 1682. 4to.

  _BM; Virginia, Chicago._

A copy of this edition was listed under No. 1244 in the Hornby Castle
Sale, 1930.


  653 Waller’s (Edmd.) Poems. 6 Edit[.]

      [8vo.      Lond.1694             20]

Edmund Waller (1606-1687). Poems, &c. written upon several occasions,
and to several persons. . . . The sixth edition; with several additions,
never before printed. London, for H. Herringman, sold by Jacob Tonson,
1694. 8vo.

  Wing W519.

  _BM; Harv, Texas, Hunt._


  654 Wilkin’s (Bp.) Mathematical Magick

      [8vo.      Ib.1648.               8]

John Wilkins, Bishop of Chester (1614-1672). Mathematicall magick. Or,
The wonders that may be performed by mechanicall geometry. London, by
M. F. for Sa. Gellibrand, 1648. 8vo.

Two editions appeared in 1648: Wing W2198-_BM; Yale, NYP_; Wing
W2199-_BM; Harv, LC, Hunt_.


  655 Wild’s Iter Boreale, & other Poems

      [12mo.     Ib.1670.               6]

Robert Wild (1609-1679). Iter Boreale, with large additions of several
other poems. London, for John Williams, 1670. 8vo.

  Wing W2137.

  _BM; Harv, Folg, Chicago, Hunt._


  656 Wynter of Bathing - two copies

      [8vo       Ib.1728             ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

John Wynter. Of bathing in the hot-baths, at Bathe; chiefly with regard
to the palsie, and some diseases in women. London, for W. Innys and
James Leake, 1728. 8vo.

  _BM; U.S. Surgeon General’s Office, John Crerar._

A copy of this edition was a part of item No. 659A in the Leeds Sale,
1930.


  657 Westmonasteriensium Comitia

      [fol.      Ib.1728             ....]

Comitia Westmonasteriensium, in collegio Sti Petri habita die
anniversario fundatricis suæ reginæ Elizabethæ inauguratæ Jan. XV.
London, typis Guil. Bowyer, 1728. fol.

  _BM; Harv, Iowa, Hunt._


  658 Young’s Vindication of Providence

      [8vo       Lon.1728            ....]

    Entry by the third hand.

Edward Young (1683-1765). A vindication of providence; or, A true
estimate of human life. . . . Preach’d in St. George’s Church near
Hanover-Square, soon after the late king’s death. The second edition
corrected. London, for T. Worrall, 1728. 8vo.

  _BM; Harv, NYP, Clark._


  659 Zayde, Histoire Espagnole p Mr. de _Segrais_
      2 Tom[.]

      [12mo.     Paris 1705            23]

[Marie Madeleine, Comtesse de La Fayette (1634-1693).] Zayde, histoire
espagnole. Par M. de Segrais [pseudonyn of the Comtesse de La Fayette].
A Paris, chez Pierre Aubouyn [or Christophe David], 1705. 2 tom. 12mo.

  _BN; Cornell, Illinois._

  [Decoration]




INDEX OF AUTHORS, EDITORS, TRANSLATORS, COMPOSERS, AND ANONYMOUS TITLES

_Numbers refer to the items_


  Addison, Joseph, 23, 413, 427.
  Aesop, 483.
  Ainworth, R., 339.
  Alemán, Mateo, 262.
  Alessandro, Guglielmo, 115.
  Alexandre, Alexander ab, 17.
  Ampelius, Lucius, 254.
  Amyot, Jacques, Bishop of Auxerre, 20.
  Anacreon, 190.
  Anglerius, Petrus Martyr, 646.
  Angoulême, Margaret d’, 124.
  Arbuthnot, John, 34, 35.
  Aretino, Pietro Bacci, 25.
  Aristophanes, 192.
  Aristotle, 7, 8, 9, 198, 509.
  Arnauld, Antoine, 11.
  Astell, Mary, 515.
  Athenaeus Naucratita, 1, 33.
  Atterbury, Bishop Francis, 16.
  Aubrey, John, 15.
  Augustanus, G. X., 457.
  Aulnoy, Marie Catherine Jumelle de Berneville, Comtesse d’, 297,
    405b.

  Balzac, Jean Louis Guez de, 55, 56.
  Barclay, Robert, 53.
  Barnes, Jos., 290.
  Bates, 215.
  Baudoin, Jean, 357.
  Baudot de Juilly, Nicholas, 275, 302.
  Bayle, Pierre, 172.
  Beaumont, Francis, 42, 407b.
  Behn, Aphra, 411.
  Bentley, Thomas, 140.
  Bernier, F., 272.
  Bible, Holy, 69.
  Bignon, Abbé Jean Paul, 27.
  Blackmore, Sir Richard, 46, 47, 48, 49, 422.
  Blasius, Gerardus, 652.
  Blount, Thomas, 50.
  Boccaccio, Giovanni, 68, 123, 164, 628.
  Boccalini, Trajano, 43.
  Bonarelli della Rovere, Guido Ubaldi, 253.
  Bononcini, Giovanni Battista, 65.
  Boileau-Despréaux, Nicholas, 57, 58, 59.
  Bouhours, Le P. Dominique, 31.
  Bourdeille, Pierre de, Seigneur de Brantôme, 63.
  Boyer, Mr., 404.
  Boyardo, Metheo Maria, Conte di Scandiano, 513.
  Boxhorn, M. Z., 585.
  Boyle, Charles, 60.
  Brébeuf, Georges de, 345.
  Brent, Nathanael, 453.
  Brignole Sale, Antonio Giulio, 114.
  Broome, William, 196, 438.
  Brown, Thomas, 411, 572.
  Browne, Sir Thomas, 519.
  Buckingham, Duke of, 411.
  Budgell, Eustace, 608.
  Bulstrode, Whitlocke, 52.
  Burgersdijck, Franco Petri, 62.
  Burnaby, Mr., 473.
  Burnet, Gilbert, 37, 38.
  Burnet, Thomas, 39, 40, 41.
  Busbecq, Augier Ghislain, 64.
  Busby, Richard, 265.
  Bussy-Rabutin, Roger de, 21.

  Caesar, Gaius Julius, 71, 72, 73, 74.
  Calvi, François de, 295.
  _Cambridge Dictionary_, 87.
  Camoens, Luiz de, 152.
  Camus, Jean Pierre, Bishop of Belley, 14.
  Canterus, Gulielmus, 537.
  Cartwright, William, 90.
  Casaubon, Isaac, 1, 533.
  Cassandre, François, 9.
  Catullus, Gaius Valerius, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95.
  Caumont de la Force, Charlotte-Rose de, 274, 303.
  Cebes, 108.
  _Celimauro, Il, Istoria Spagnvola_, 114.
  Celsus, Aulus Cornelius, 118, 158.
  Cervantes Saavedra, Miguel de, 115, 116, 206, 207, 208, 209, 210.
  Céspedes y Meneses, Gonsalo de, 268.
  Challes, Robert, 331.
  Chapelain, Jean, 30.
  Chapman, George, 292, 407d, 407e.
  Chardin, Sir John, 81.
  Charpentier, François, 159, 630.
  Charron, Pierre, 117.
  Chaucer, Geoffrey, 75, 76, 77, 164, 601.
  Chaumont, Monsieur de, Ambassador to Siam, 647.
  Chifflet, Laurent, 130.
  Chomel, Pierre Jean Baptiste, 127.
  Chorier, Nicholas, 398.
  Cicero, Marcus Tullius, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142,
    143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149.
  Clericus, Joannis, 388.
  Cluverius, Philippus, 131.
  Cockman, Thomas, 138.
  _Collection of Poems_, etc., _A_, 410.
  _Collection of Poems_, 157.
  _Collection of the Several Statutes_, etc., _A_, 106.
  _Collection of Treaties_, etc., 105.
  Collier, Jeremy, 100, 101, 139.
  Collins, Anthony, 204, 530.
  Colsoni, François, 273.
  Colvius, Petrus, 560.
  Comines, Philippe de, 150, 151.
  _Comitia Westmonasteriensium_, etc., 657.
  Congreve, William, 96, 97, 98, 99, 163, 256, 411, 413, 427, 429.
  _Contes et Nouvelles en Vers_, 126.
  Conti, Natale, 1, 424.
  Cooper, Thomas, 86.
  Corneille, Pierre, 82, 83.
  Corneille, Thomas, 86.
  Cornelius Nepos, 132.
  Cotgrave, Randle, 85.
  Cotton, Charles, 379, 468.
  Cowley, Abraham, 78, 79, 80, 411.
  Creech, Thomas, 104, 353, 385.
  _Cuisinier Royal et Bourgeois_, 107.
  Culpeper, Nicholas, 128, 218, 221.

  Dacier, André, 197, 198, 199, 288, 365, 480, 631.
  Dacier, Madame Anne Lefèvre, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196.
  Dale, Samuel, 200, 201.
  Dalechamps, Jacob, 1.
  Daniel, Père Gabriel, 528.
  Davenant, Charles, 179.
  Davenant, Sir William, 177, 178.
  Davall, P., 517.
  Davies, John, 4, 238.
  Davisius, Joannes, 146, 147, 148, 149.
  _Defense of Dramatic Poetry_, _A_, 101.
  Deloney, Thomas, 405g.
  Demosthenes, 211, 212, 223.
  Dennis, John, 186, 187, 188, 189.
  De Sandisson, 27.
  Descartes, René, 185.
  Desjardins, Marie Catherine Hortense, 26.
  Desprez, Ludovicus, 318.
  Diaper, William, 423.
  _Dictionnaire Universel François et Latin_, 173.
  Diemerbroeck, Isbrandus de, 184.
  Dillon, Wentworth, Earl of Roscommon, 507.
  Dio Cassius, 202.
  _Dispensatory of the Royal College of Physicians, The_, 214.
  Dodwell, Henry, 203.
  Donne, John, 157, 182, 183.
  Dousica, 452.
  Dryden, John, 157, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 169,
    170, 171, 384, 406a, 427, 429, 431.
  Dufresny, Charles Rivière, 482.
  Duke, Richard, 507.
  Du Noyer, Anne Margaret Petit, 373.
  Dunton, John, 224.
  Duport, James, 371.
  Du Quesne, Abraham, 621.
  Du Ryer, P., 285.
  Dyson, H., 534.

  E. S. [Elkanah Settle?], 101.
  Earle, John, 231, 416.
  Eccles, John, 232.
  Echard, Laurence, 226, 227, 228.
  _Ecole Parfaite des Officiers de Bouche, L’_, 240.
  Eden, Richard, 646.
  Edmonds, Clemt., 74.
  Egerton, Sarah Fyge, 255, 461.
  _English Military Discipline_, 229.
  Erasmus, Desiderius, 230, 263.
  Estienne, Charles (Carolus Stephanus), 180.
  Estienne, Henri, 456.
  Estienne, Henry, sieur Des Fossez, 12.
  Etherege, Sir George, 235.
  Eustacius, a Sancto Paulo, 236.
  Exquemelin, Alexandre Olivier, 301.

  Fabri (Lefèbvre), Tannequi, 241.
  Fairfax, Edward, 266.
  _Famous and Renowned History of . . . Hercules of Greece, The_,
    405d.
  Fanshaw, Richard, 152.
  Félibien, Jean François, 394.
  Fénelon, François de Salignac de la Mothe, 575, 576, 577, 578.
  Fenton, Elijah, 446.
  Filmer, Edward, 101, 103.
  Fléchier, Valentin Esprit, 300.
  Fletcher, John, 42, 407b.
  Florus, Lucius Annæus, 254.
  Fontenelle, Bernard de Bovier de, 242, 243, 244, 245, 246, 247, 248,
    249.
  Fracastoro, Girolamo, 557.
  Frederickus, Johannes, 5.
  Frezier, Amédee François, 639.
  Fuller, Thomas, 252.
  Funnell, William, 642.
  Furetière, Antoine, 573.

  Galland, Antoine, 120.
  Galliard, Johann Ernest, 256.
  Gallus, Gaius Cornelius, 94.
  Gand, Louis de, 564.
  Garouville, 28.
  Garth, Sir Samuel, 260, 261.
  Gassend, Pierre, 272.
  Gay, John, 257, 258, 259.
  Gaza, Theodorus, 263.
  Gellius, Aulus, 5, 6.
  Gemelli-Careri, Giovanni Francesco, 617.
  _General Collection of Treatys_, etc., _A_, 105.
  _Gentleman’s Jockey, The_, 277.
  Geoffrey of Monmouth, 327.
  Gesnerus, Conradus, 538.
  Gherardi, Evaristo, 270.
  Giffanius, O., 354.
  Gildon, Charles, 411, 417.
  Glanvill, Mr., 249.
  Godefroy, Denys, 150.
  _Godfrey of Bulloigne_, 266.
  Goulston, Theodor, 7.
  Graevius, Joannes Georgius, 92, 134, 135, 136, 143, 144, 145.
  Granville, George, Baron Lansdowne, 360.
  Gratius, Ortwinus, 237.
  Greene, Robert, 405f.
  Gronovius, J. F., 363, 448.
  Gronovius, Jakob, 5, 137.
  Grotius, H., 388.
  _Grove, The_, 157, 269.
  Guarini, Giovanni Battista, 484.
  Gueulette, Thomas-Simon, 122, 605.

  Hales, John, 284.
  Hamilton, Anthony, 404.
  Hardoüin, Jean, 293.
  Hare, Francis, Bishop of Chichester, 400.
  Hawkwood, Sir John de, 405e.
  Head, Richard, 405a, 405i.
  Hédelin, François, Abbé d’Aubignac, 10, 469.
  Heinsius, Daniel, 322.
  Heinsius, Nicholas, 625.
  _Heliodorus, The Famous Historie of_, 407f.
  Her, Chevalier d’, 247.
  Herodotus, 285, 286, 287.
  Hippocrates, 288.
  Hobbes, Thomas, 281, 282.
  Holy Bible, 69.
  Holyday, Barten, 337.
  Homer, 164, 193, 194, 196, 289, 290, 291, 292, 293, 391, 407e, 465,
    466, 650.
  _Honnête Homme et le Scelerat, L’_, 316.
  Hopkins, Charles, 51.
  Horace (Quintus Horatius Flaccus), 104, 199, 315, 317, 318, 319,
    320, 321, 322, 323, 406b.
  Houdar de La Motte, Antoine, 389, 390, 391.
  Hughes, John, 248.

  Ides, Everard-Isbrantz, 640.

  Jacob, Giles, 328, 329, 367.
  Jamblichus, of Chalcis, 326.
  J. D. D. C., Monsieur, 316.
  Johnson, T., 108.
  Jonson, Ben, 44, 45.
  J. P., 24.
  Justinianus I, 332.
  Justinus, Marcus Junianus, 336.
  Juvenalis, Decimus Junius, 163, 334, 335, 337.

  Kemp, John, 339.
  Kennet, Basil, 340, 341.
  Killigrew, Thomas, the Elder, 342.

  Labottière, Claude, 629.
  La Bruyère, Jean de, 607.
  La Chapelle, Jean de, 22.
  Lactantius, Caecilius Firmianus, 361.
  La Fayette, Marie Madeleine, Comtesse de, 659.
  La Fontaine, Jean de, 19, 125, 250, 395.
  La Grange-Chancel, François Joseph de, 330.
  Lamb, Patrick, 110.
  Lambini, 451.
  Langio, Joseph, 323.
  Lawes, Henry, 10.
  _Lazarillo de Tormes, La Vie et Avantures de_, 632.
  Le Bossu, René, 61.
  Lee, Nathaniel, 358.
  Leeds, 1st Duke of, 219.
  Lefèbvre, Tannequi, 241.
  Le Fevre, Raoul, 405h.
  Lenoble, Eustache, Baron de Saint-Georges et de Tennelière, 24, 271.
  Le Roux, Philibert Joseph, 176.
  Le Roy, Marin, sieur de Gomberville, 308.
  Le Sage, Alain René, 298, 307.
  Leti, Gregorio, 299.
  Lilly, William, 359.
  _Linguæ Romanæ Dictionarium_, etc., 87.
  Lipsius, Justus, 364.
  Lisle, William, 407f.
  Littlebury, Isaac, 286.
  _Lives of the Grecian Poets_, 368.
  Livius, Titus, 362, 363.
  Lloyd, Nicholas, 180.
  Locke, John, 348, 349.
  Longinus, 351.
  Longus, 20.
  Lucanus, Marcus Annæus, 343, 344, 345, 346.
  Lucas, Paul, 618, 619, 620.
  Lucian of Samosata, 264, 356, 357.
  Lucretius (Titus Lucretius Carus), 352, 353, 354, 355.
  Luna, Miguel de, 366.
  Lyttelton, George Baron, 70.

  Mabbe, James, 262.
  Macrobius, Ambrosius Theodosius, 399.
  Malebranche, Nicholas, 382.
  Mailly, Chevalier de, 425.
  Maittaire, Michael, 132, 584, 624.
  Malory, Sir T., 13.
  Malthus, Francis (François de Malthe), 397.
  Maucroix, François de, 395.
  Mandelslo, John Albert de, 4, 616.
  Mandeville, Sir John, 405k, 641.
  Manilius, Marcus, 385.
  Manning, 202.
  Marchand, P., 18.
  Margaret of Navarre, 124.
  Marini, Giovanni Ambrogio, 113.
  Marini, Giovanni Battista, 2, 3.
  May, Thomas, 346.
  Mayne, Zachary, 222.
  Menander, 388.
  Meurs, Johannes van, 398.
  Middleton, Thomas, 407a.
  Miege, Guy, 396.
  Milbourne, Luke, 384.
  Milton, John, 380, 381, 411, 650.
  Minshew, John, 181.
  _Miscellaneous Letters and Essays_, etc., 417.
  _Miscellaneous Poems and Translations_, 409.
  _Miscellaneous Poems by Oxford & Cambridge Hands_, 412.
  Moivre, Abraham de, 205.
  Molière, Jean Baptiste Poquelin de, 393.
  Molyneux, William, 387.
  Monmouth, Geoffrey of, 327.
  Montaigne, Michel Eyquem de, 376, 377, 378, 379.
  Montesquieu, Baron de, 373.
  Montfaucon de Villars, Abbé de, 119.
  Moore, Sir Jonas, 386.
  Morabin, Jacques, 324.
  Moretti, Tomaso, 386.
  Motteux, Peter Anthony, 36.
  Munday, A., 534.
  Muralt, Beat Louis de, 374.
  Murtada ibn al-Khafīf, 238.
  _Musarum Anglicanorum Analecta_, 383.

  Newton, Sir Isaac, 421, 426, 492.
  Nicole, Pierre, 11.
  Normanby, Marquis of, 410.
  Noris, Matteo, 392.
  _Nouveau Cuisinier Royal et Bourgeois, Le_, 107.

  Ogilby, John, 435.
  Oldham, John, 441.
  Oldisworth, 196.
  Oldmixon, John, 102, 310.
  Olearius, Adam, 4, 616.
  Osborne, Thomas, 1st Duke of Leeds, 219.
  Otway, Thomas, 444.
  Oughtred, William, 442.
  Ovid (Publius Ovidius Naso), 164, 427, 428, 429, 430, 431, 432, 433,
    434.
  Ovington, John, 440.
  Ozell, John, 196.
  Ozinde, J. B., 447.

  Paccius, Alexandrus, 8.
  Parnell, Thomas, 475.
  Parker, Samuel, 139.
  Paterculus, Gaius Velleius, 627.
  Patin, Guy, 477, 478.
  Patru, Olivier, 471.
  Pausanius, 457.
  Pechey, John, 562.
  Pedantius, 481.
  Pemberton, Henry, 492.
  Perceval, Richard, 181.
  Perrot, N., Sr. d’Ablancourt, 356, 596, 606.
  Persius (Aulus Persius Flaccus), 163, 334, 335, 337.
  Pétis de la Croix, François, 121.
  Petronius (Titus Petronius Arbiter), 473.
  Phaedrus, 483.
  Philemon, 388.
  Philips, John, 88.
  Phillippes, Henry, 479.
  Pindar, 464.
  Pinto, Fernam Mendes, 463.
  Pix, Mary, 628.
  Plato, 480.
  Plautus, Titus Maccius, 448, 450, 451, 452.
  Playford, Henry, 283.
  Pliny (Gaius Plinus Secundus), 474.
  Plutarch, 470.
  Polybius, 472.
  Pomey, François Antoine, 476.
  Pontanus, I., 399.
  Pontis, Louis de, 468.
  Pope, Alexander, 409, 420, 465, 466, 467, 475, 542, 553.
  Portus, A., 540.
  Prateus, Ludovicus, 334.
  Pratt, Samuel, 511.
  Prideaux, Humphrey, 454.
  Prior, Matthew, 411, 458, 459, 460.
  Propertius, Sextus, 91, 92, 93, 94.
  Purcell, Henry, 462.
  Pythagoras, 365, 631.

  Quevedo Villegas, Francisco Gomez, 494, 495.
  Quillet, Claude, 89.
  Quincy, John, 213, 563.
  Quintilianus, Marcus Fabius, 493.

  Rabelais, François, 506.
  Racine, Jean Baptiste, 514.
  R. A. Gent., 551.
  Ramsay, Allan, 415.
  Ramsay, Andrew Michael, 531.
  Randolph, Thomas, 112.
  Rapin, Rene, 509, 510.
  Ray, John, 499.
  Raymond, John, 518.
  Regis, Pierre Silvain, 504.
  Regnier-Desmarais, Abbé (François Séraphin), 142, 512.
  _Rehearsal, The_, 406c.
  Retz, Cardinal de (Jean François Paul de Gondi), 516, 517.
  _Reynard the Fox, The Most Delectable History of_, 529.
  Riccoboni, Louis, 314.
  Richelet, Pierre, 174.
  Richerius, Ludovicus Coelius, 501.
  Roberti, Antonius, 111.
  Rocoles, Jean Baptiste de, 309.
  Rodellius, Petrus, 319.
  Roergas de Serviez, Jacques, 251.
  Rogers, Thomas, 505.
  Rolli, Paolo Antonio, 532.
  Roscommon, Earl of, 406b.
  Rosseto, Jo., 72.
  Rousseau, Jean Baptiste, 502, 503.
  Rowe, Nicholas, 89, 343, 365, 544.
  Rowlands, Samuel, 405c.
  Ruæus, Carolus, 613.
  Rufus, Quintus Curtius, 496, 497.
  Ruggle, G., 333.
  Rutgers, J., 321.
  Rycaut, Sir Paul, 313, 500.
  Rymer, Thomas, 509.

  Saint-Evremond, Seigneur de, Charles de Marguetel de Saint-Denis,
    233.
  Saint-Réal, César Vichard de, 18, 129.
  Sallust (Gaius Sallustius Crispus), 583, 584, 585, 586.
  Salmon, William, 215, 216, 217.
  Sanctorius, 563.
  Sandys, George, 428.
  Sannazaro, Jacobo, 581.
  Sanson d’Abbeville, Sr., 73.
  Sanvitale, Fortuniano, 2, 3.
  Sapho, 190.
  Sarpi, Paolo, 453.
  Scala, Flaminio, 600.
  Scaliger, Joseph Juste, 622.
  Scaliger, Julius Cæsar, 559.
  Scapula, Johannes, 539.
  Scarron, Paul, 569, 570, 571, 572, 573.
  Schmid, Erasmus, 464.
  Schrevelio, Corn., 344.
  Scoto, Lorenzo, 2, 3.
  Scribonius Largus, 589.
  Scudery, George de, 32, 579.
  Secondat, Charles Louis de, Baron de la Brède et de Montesquieu,
    373.
  _Secret History of the Reigns_, etc., _The_, 311.
  Seneca, Lucius Annaeus, 587.
  Séraphin, François, abbé Regnier-Desmarais, 142, 512.
  Settle, Elkanah, 101.
  Shadwell, Thomas, 566.
  Shakespeare, William, 407c, 408, 541, 542, 543, 544, 545, 546.
  Sherley, Sir Anthony, 643.
  Shirley, James, 551, 552.
  Sidney, Sir Philip, 455.
  Sidonius, Caius Sollius Apollinaris, 560.
  Smith, John, 375.
  Smith, Richard, 109.
  Sophocles, 197.
  Sorel, Charles, Sieur de Souvigny, 54, 296, 350.
  Souciet, E., 174.
  _Source des Malheurs d’Angleterre_, etc., _La_, 580.
  Southerne, Thomas, 590.
  Spenser, Edmund, 535, 536.
  Spinoza, 602.
  Spondani, Jo., 289.
  Stanhope, George, 117.
  Stanyan, Temple, 555, 556.
  Statius, Publius Papinius, 409.
  _Statutes Now in Force_, etc., _The_, 106.
  Steele, Sir Richard, 234, 567, 568.
  Stephanus, Carolus (Charles Estienne), 180.
  Stobæus, Johannes, 537, 538.
  Stow, John, 534.
  Strabo, 533.
  Suckling, Sir John, 157, 558.
  _Suidas_, 540.
  Swift, Jonathan, 420, 553, 554, 603, 612.
  Sydenham, Thomas, 561, 562.
  Sylvester, Joshua, 582.

  Tachard, Guy, 645.
  Tacitus, Cornelius, 606.
  Tarteron, P., 315.
  Tasso, Torquato, 29, 267.
  Tate, Nahum, 429, 557.
  Temple, Sir William, 603.
  Tenain, Mme. de, 520.
  Terence (Publius Terentius Afer), 191, 592, 593, 594, 595.
  Theobald, Lewis, 591.
  Theophrastus, 607, 608.
  Thompson, Aaron, 327.
  Thucydides, 282, 596.
  Tibullus, Albius, 22, 91, 92, 93, 94.
  Tillotson, John, Archbishop of Canterbury, 597, 598, 599.
  Timoléon de Choisy, François, 294.
  Tollius, Jacobus, 351.
  _Treatise Partly Theological_, etc., _A_, 602.
  Trogus, Pompeius, 336.

  Vallemont, Abbe Pierre Le Lorrain de, 637.
  Vattier, Monsieur, 238.
  Vaugelas, M. de, 496.
  Vega, Garcilasso de la, el Inca, 500.
  Veneroni, Giovanni, 175.
  Vertot D’Aubeuf, René Aubert, 633, 634, 635, 636.
  Vinnius, Arnoldus, 332.
  Virgil (Publius Virgilius Maro), 161, 162, 187, 384, 613, 614, 622,
    623, 624, 625, 626.
  Voiture, Vincent de, 615.
  Voltaire (François Marie Arouet), 648, 649, 650.
  Vossius, Isaac, 95.

  Waller, Edmund, 653.
  Walsh, William, 157.
  Ward, J., 339.
  _We Have Brought Our Hogs to a Fair Market_, etc., 405j.
  _Westmonasteriensium Comitia_, 657.
  Wild, Robert, 655.
  Wilkins, John, Bishop of Chester, 654.
  Willes, Richard, 646.
  Willis, Thomas, 652.
  Wilmot, John, Earl of Rochester, 508.
  Wycherley, William, 651.
  Wynter, John, 656.

  Xenophon, 159, 596, 630.
  Xiphilinus, 202.

  Young, Edward, 439, 658.

  Zade, Chec, 604.


INDEX OF PLACES NAMED IN IMPRINTS

  Amsterdam, 3, 6, 11, 20, 22, 29, 57, 58, 59, 94, 116, 118, 124, 125,
    126, 131, 134, 135, 136, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 176, 190, 191,
    197, 198, 223, 230, 253, 267, 275, 298, 300, 315, 322, 332, 362,
    388, 395, 425, 448, 478, 482, 484, 496, 504, 510, 516, 570, 581,
    586, 606, 609, 618, 630, 645, 652.
  Antwerp (Amberes, Anvers, Antuerpiae), 206, 250, 263, 299, 364, 537.

  Basel, 33, 263, 289.
  Bourdeaux, 378.
  Brussels (Bruxelles), 28, 130, 150, 207, 316, 390, 494, 495, 607,
    632.

  Cambridge (Cantabrigiae), 62, 87, 91, 140, 146, 147, 148, 149, 236,
    290, 317, 361, 371, 593, 614.
  Cologne, 21, 123, 372, 373, 374, 520, 580.

  Dublin, 387.

  Edinburgh, 415.

  Frankfort (Francofurti), 237, 287, 452, 501.

  Geneva (Geneve, Coloniae Allobrogum), 174, 424, 540.

  Hague, The (La Haye), 18, 19, 27, 159, 297, 302, 331, 345, 619.
  Hanau (Hanoviae), 17, 323, 457.
  Heidelberg, 1, 559.

  Lausanne, 72.
  Leiden (Lugduni Batavorum), 5, 63, 64, 95, 137, 158, 296, 344, 363,
    399, 474, 585, 587, 626.
  London, 4, 7, 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 23, 24, 30, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39,
    40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 60, 65, 68,
    70, 71, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 85, 86, 88, 89, 90, 93, 96,
    97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 108, 109, 110, 112,
    117, 128, 132, 139, 151, 152, 157, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165,
    166, 167, 168, 169, 170, 171, 177, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 185,
    186, 187, 188, 189, 196, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205, 208, 209,
    211, 213, 214, 215, 216, 217, 218, 219, 221, 222, 224, 226, 227,
    228, 229, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235, 238, 248, 249, 252, 254, 255,
    256, 257, 258, 259, 260, 261, 265, 266, 268, 269, 273, 277, 281,
    282, 283, 284, 286, 291, 292, 307, 308, 309, 310, 313, 314, 318,
    319, 320, 327, 328, 329, 333, 334, 335, 336, 339, 340, 341, 342,
    343, 346, 348, 349, 350, 352, 355, 358, 359, 360, 365, 366, 367,
    368, 379, 380, 381, 384, 385, 386, 387, 394, 396, 397, 400, 404,
    405a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, 406a, b, c, 407a, b, c, d, e,
    f, 408, 409, 410, 411, 413, 416, 417, 420, 421, 422, 423, 426,
    427, 428, 429, 430, 431, 433, 434, 435, 438, 439, 440, 441, 444,
    446, 447, 450, 453, 454, 455, 458, 459, 460, 461, 462, 463, 465,
    466, 467, 468, 470, 472, 473, 475, 479, 481, 483, 492, 497, 499,
    500, 502, 505, 506, 507, 508, 509, 511, 515, 517, 518, 519, 529,
    530, 531, 532, 534, 535, 536, 541, 542, 543, 544, 545, 551, 552,
    553, 554, 555, 556, 557, 558, 561, 562, 563, 564, 566, 567, 568,
    572, 573, 582, 583, 584, 588, 590, 591, 594, 595, 597, 598, 599,
    602, 603, 604, 605, 608, 610, 612, 624, 627, 628, 639, 640, 641,
    642, 643, 644, 646, 647, 648, 649, 650, 651, 653, 654, 655, 656,
    657, 658.
  Lyons (Lugduni), 272, 323, 539, 622.

  Naples, 114.

  Oxford (Oxoniae), 69, 138, 262, 326, 337, 353, 383, 442, 601.

  Paris (Lutetia Parisorum), 2, 3, 8, 9, 12, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32, 55,
    56, 61, 73, 82, 83, 84, 107, 119, 120, 121, 122, 127, 129, 173,
    175, 178, 192, 193, 194, 195, 197, 199, 210, 212, 240, 242, 243,
    244, 245, 246, 247, 251, 270, 271, 274, 285, 288, 293, 294, 301,
    303, 324, 330, 354, 356, 357, 376, 377, 382, 389, 391, 393, 432,
    451, 456, 469, 471, 477, 480, 482, 493, 512, 513, 514, 528, 533,
    560, 569, 571, 575, 576, 577, 578, 579, 592, 596, 613, 615, 616,
    617, 623, 629, 631, 633, 634, 635, 636, 637, 659.
  Padua (Patavii), 589.

  Rotterdam, 38, 111, 172, 296, 503.
  Rouen, 53, 82, 83, 84, 295, 620, 621.

  Saumur (Salmurii), 241.
  Strasbourg (Argentine), 264.

  Trevoux, 173.

  Utrecht (Trajecti ad Rhenum, Trajecti Batavorum, Ultrajecti), 92,
    184, 321, 351, 476, 625.

  Venice, 113, 115, 392, 600.

  Wittenberg (Witebergae), 464.

  Zurich (Tiguri), 538.


       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

Errors in the modern (1955) material have been corrected. Other
irregularities are noted here but were left unchanged.

Modern Material

  Introduction
    338 (55 per cent) in the Harvard Library
    [_closing parenthesis missing_]
  No. 257
    ... in the Leeds Sale, 1930, as Nos. 257, 258, 259.  [258. 259]
  No. 264
    Bracketed with No. 263 in the manuscript.  [363]
  No. 307
    London, for Jacob Tonson, 1725 12mo.  [1725 12mo]
  No. 313
    _BM; Folg, Illinois, Washington State College._  [_. missing_]
  No. 463
    _BM; Yale, Pennsylvania, LC, Newberry._  [Pennsylvannia]
  No. 506
    Rabelais’s Works 2 Vols_[.]
    [_editorial [.] misprinted as [.[_]
  No. 572
    revised and corrected
    [_“and / and” at line break_]
  Index
    La Fayette, Marie Madeleine, Comtesse de, 659.  [Comtessee]
    Murtada ibn al-Khafîf, 238.  [_unchanged: body text has Murtadā_]
    Vaugelas, M. de, 496.  [de.,]

Original Material

  No. 236
    Gulielmus Congreve est verus Possessor hajus Libri
  No. 278
    [4to       Lug.B.              1706]
    [_columns as shown_]
  No. 313
    History off the Otaman Empire
  No. 331
    Illustres Francoişes  [_cedilla under s instead of c_]
  No. 412
    Poems by Oxford &/Cambride Hands
  No. 451
    M. Accius Plautus
  No. 523
    [---- - ----                     11]
    [_printed as shown_]
  No. 573
    “_Some Persons may object, and ask, Why is not the_ City Romance
    here? To which we answer, It was none of his, but one father’d
    upon him, to make it sell.”
    [_Passage italicized as shown. With italic main text, the expected
    form would be:_
    “_Some Persons may object, and ask,_ Why is not the _City Romance_
    here? _To which we answer,_ It was none of his, but one father’d
    upon him, to make it sell.”]
  No. 645
    [12mo.     Amster-1688            3]
  Index
    Padua
    [_alphabetized after “Paris”, as shown; other cities are
    alphabetized by their modern names_]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Library of William Congreve, by 
John C. Hodges and William Congreve

